Harvard CS50 is the most popular
computer science course in the world. If
you're a beginner learning to code, it's
pretty much your gold standard. But when
I was taking the course back in school,
it was pretty hard for me. It was just
so much computer science information all
at once. I would get really overwhelmed.
And I don't want any of you to go
through that struggle, which is why I
made this video. In this video, I'll be
going through every single week of
Harvard CS50. [music] Break down each
module in a simple beginner friendly way
with lots of visuals. I'll explain what
each week teaches you, why it matters,
and [music] how it fits into the bigger
picture of computer science. Even if you
have absolutely no experience with
coding, that's completely fine because
in this video, we're going to take you
from zero to a solid computer science
foundation. Plus, there are timestamps
down below so you can skip to any topics
you want to focus on. And with that
being said, sit back, [music] relax, and
let's get started. Week zero at CS50 is
where you learn Scratch, which is a
beginner-friendly programming
environment designed to teach core
computer science concepts without typing
code. So instead of writing text, you
build programs by snapping together
visual blocks. This makes programming
way less intimidating. So you open up
Scratch by going to scratch.mmit.edu
and start creating. You'll see a
character on the screen and a set of
blocks you can drag in. You do not need
to install [music] anything. Everything
runs in your browser and your goal is to
tell the character what to do by
snapping blocks together. [music] And
specifically in Scratch, there are four
main programming concepts I want you to
learn. First is sequencing. Programmers
must give instructions in the exact
order they should run. For example, you
can tell the character to say hello for
2 seconds and then move forward then
let's start. Based on the way you orient
the blocks, it will execute in [music]
that manner. It's the same thing when
you deal with actual programming
languages like Python or Java. Your
lines of code will execute in the order
you write them in. The second concept is
loops. Programmers use loops to repeat
actions without rewriting them. For
example, instead of saying move forward,
move forward, move forward, move
forward. You can just set up a loop for
the character to move forward a certain
number of times. This is how you will be
able to write more efficient code rather
than repetitive redundant code. The
third concept is conditionals, which is
when programs make decisions by checking
if something is true. For example, you
can tell the character to move if you're
pressing down a certain key. And that
code block will only execute if that
condition of you pressing that key
[music] is true. In actual programming
languages, you'll deal with if, else,
else, blocks, but more on those
languages later. The fourth concept is
variables. So, programs store
information using variables that can
change over time. For example, you can
create a variable called score and
increase it every time the character
does an action. Think of variables like
placeholders. [music]
So instead of repeating a number or a
word every time in code, you just have
to set the variable once and place it
everywhere you need it, which makes
things look a whole lot neater. But
either way, Scratch is just a way for
you to learn the basics of programming
and computing. [music] It helps you
think like a programmer, but no one in
actual industry ever [clears throat]
uses Scratch, so we must move on. The
next week is week one of CS50. [music]
And here you will learn C, which is a
textbased programming language that
exposes [music] how computers actually
work. Unlike Scratch, where code blocks
protect your computers from dealing with
any errors, C requires you to be
precise. Something important about C is
that your code must be compiled before
it can run. When you write C code,
you're writing source code, which is
designed for humans to read. The
computer itself does not understand this
code. Instead, a compiler translates
your source code into machine code,
which is a series of binary instructions
the computer can execute. If the
compiler finds mistakes, [music]
it stops and reports errors before the
program can ever run. This forces you to
fix problems early and teaches you
discipline in how you write programs.
Every C program starts execution in a
function called main. This is very
important. This is the entry point of
the program. And when the compiled
program runs, the computer jumps
directly into the main function and
[music] begins executing instructions
line by line, top to bottom. There's no
hidden behavior or automatic logic. If a
line of code is not written, it will not
happen. One of the first programs people
often write is this thing called hello
world. You've probably heard of it
before. It's basically taking the words
hello world and displaying [music] it on
your screen. It's a very simple program.
And to do that in C, you basically have
to write it out like this. [music] print
f hello world backslash and semicolon.
This line tells the program to print the
text hello world exclamation point to
the screen. Something important to note
is the print f function doesn't exist
automatically in C. It comes from a
standard library which is a collection
of pre-written code which we include and
bring in through the line at the top of
the file. You must explicitly include
this library that defines the print f.
If you forget this step, the compiler
will throw an error and the program will
not compile. C is strict about syntax.
Statements must end with semicolons.
Text must [music] be wrapped in double
quotes. Special characters like back
slashn are used to move to a new line.
These rules [music] exist because the
compiler needs clear instructions. If
you miss a single character, it can
cause errors and your compiler will be
very upset with you. Variables in C
store data just like variables in
Scratch, but each variable must have a
type. A string stores [music] text like
hello world. An int stores whole
numbers. A float or double stores
decimal numbers. You declare a variable
by specifying its type and name and then
assign a value to it. Whenever you're
finished writing your code in C, all you
have to do is compile it by going to the
terminal and writing make file [music]
name. But depending on your file system,
this command could look a little
different. Then you can run the code by
typing dot /file name in the terminal.
And just like that, you wrote and ran
your first C program. So
congratulations. The following week is
week two where you stop thinking about
individual lines of code and start
thinking about data, memory, and arrays.
When a program runs, it stores data in
memory so it can be accessed [music]
later. Different types of data take up
different amounts of space, which is why
I mentioned programming languages care
about data types. An integer, a decimal
number, a character of a word are all
stored differently, even if they look
similar on screen. Strings, [music]
text, like I mentioned before, are
special because their size can change.
[music] For example, an integer number
zero and an integer number 1,00 takes
the same amount of memory. But the word
sum and the word summer do not take the
same amount of memory. Because of this,
strings are treated as collections of
characters rather than single fixed
values. And on this point, another
important type of data for you to know
are arrays, which are essential for
large programs. [music] Arrays let you
store multiple values of the same type
together in memory. You can have an
array of numbers, an array of strings,
an array of anything, an array of U. And
I'll cover this a little bit more when
we get into the topic of data
structures. [music] So now that we
understand basic data and arrays, we are
ready to move on to week three, which
covers searching and sorting. So
sometimes you can have arrays that are
really, really long, like hundreds,
thousands of items. But what if you want
to access a particular item within that
array? Well, we need to search for that
item in order to access it. And that's
where searching algorithms come in. And
specifically, I'll be covering two
searching algorithms. So, first we got
linear search, [music] which is pretty
basic. This algorithm just checks each
element in a list one at a time until
[music] a target is found. It works on
any list, any array, regardless of
order. For example, say you're searching
for the number seven in an array of
49173.
Meaning, linear search will first check
four, then 9, then 1, and then it'll
finally find seven and say, "Hey, the
element was found." And while this does
work, obviously [music] this could take
a really long time, especially if the
list is long itself. So a quicker
algorithm will be our next searching
algorithm called binary search. Binary
search only works if the data is sorted.
And the way this operates is by
repeatedly cutting [music] the search
space in half till you're left with your
target element. For example, say we're
searching for the number 30 in this
array. First, it'll start from the
middle and ask if 30 is less than, equal
to, or greater than 18. [music] Since
it's greater than, it'll break the array
in half and look at the top half. Then
it'll find the middle element and
[music] ask if 30 is less than, equal
to, or greater than 30. In this case,
since it's equal to, the algorithm will
end right there and return that it found
that element. So in a linear search, we
would have gone through nine whole
iterations to find the target. In this
case, with binary, we just went through
two iterations. And like I said, binary
search requires the array to be sorted.
So, if our array is messy and out of
order, we must do some sorting, which is
where sorting algorithms come into the
mix. And I'll cover three main sorting
algorithms here. The first is called
bubble sort. This algorithm repeatedly
compares adjacent elements and swaps
them if they're in the wrong order.
Larger values gradually move to the end
of the list. For example, if you're
sorting the array 5 3 4 1. First, it
swaps five and three, then five and
four, then five and one, pushing five to
the end after one full pass. This
process is repeated until the list is
sorted. And the nice thing is you'll get
the right answer, but the bad thing is
if the list is long, this could be
pretty slow. So the next algorithm we'll
talk about is selection sort. This
sorting algorithm sorts the array by
repeatedly selecting the smallest
element and placing it at the front. For
example, sorting the array 6 2 41 first
finds one, moves that to the front, then
finds two, but then position, then four,
then it finally leaves the list [music]
sorted. And although this is less
swapping compared to bubble sort, still
overall if the list is really long, this
could take a really [music] long time.
So if you actually want a fast sorting
algorithm, we got merge sort. So merge
sort splits a list into half, sorting
each half and then merging them back
together in order. For example, if
you're sorting the array 8352. [music]
First, it'll split it into 83 and 52,
then into single elements, and then
finally merging them into 2358. [music]
This approach guarantees fast and
consistent performance even for larger
data sets. And now personally when I was
learning data structures and algorithms
in university, I use this tool called
csvisttool.com. It's a free website that
helps you visualize data structures
algorithms as well as the code that goes
along with it. It made it super easy for
me to understand because it would give
such good diagram walkthroughs. [music]
And if you're interested, I'll link it
down below in the description. Week four
is when we get deeper into memory. And
now I'm not going to go into too many
details in this section because it could
feel overwhelming especially if you're a
beginner. So we'll operate at a high
level and you let me know down below if
you have any questions in the comments.
So every variable or value that a
program uses lives somewhere in the
computer's memory and each memory
location has [music] an address just
like each of you has a home address.
Each variable has a memory address. Now
the thing is in the computer world the
way the address is [music] noted is by
using a certain type of number called
hexadimal. So regular numbers are
decimal. This is 1. This is [music] 10.
This is 100. But hexadimals actually use
regular digits 0 through 9. But for
numbers 10 through 15, it [music] uses A
through F. So if I wanted to write out
the number 14, I wouldn't write out 14.
I would just write out E. If I wanted to
write out 26, I would write 1 A. The 1
is for 16. [music] The A is for 10. Add
them together for 26. And this can
actually get very complicated very
quickly. So I'm going to spare you guys
the headache. But if you do understand
hexodimal, the next thing for you to do
would be to learn about pointers and
string comparisons. But for the sake of
this video, I won't go into all those
nitty-gritty details. So the next week
is week five of CS50. And this gets deep
[music] into data structures. My
favorite. So I already introduced arrays
to you guys, which is a structure that
stores data in a contiguous manner.
Meaning each elements are side by side
in memory. Each item in the array has a
fixed position and you can go to any
item by accessing [music]
its index. Kind of like middle school
lockers. You go to any locker by knowing
its number. That's what we got for
arrays. Another popular data structure
is called a stack. [music] And this one
follows the ordering rule of last in
first out. Think of it like a stack of
plates. You [music] place plates on the
top and remove the top plate first. In
programming, adding to a stack is called
push and removing is called pop. And
stacks are useful in depth research
algorithms. The next data structure is a
Q which unlike a stack is a first in
first out [music] structure. Think of a
line at a store. The person in the front
of the line is serve first. It's a first
come first-s serve basis. And the lines
another word for it is actually a Q.
Specifically in computer science Q's are
used in bread for search algorithms.
[music]
The next data structure is a dictionary
hashmap and this stores pairs of
information using a [music] key and a
value. A real dictionary maps words to
definitions. A phone book maps names
[music] to phone numbers. Dictionaries,
hashmaps let you quickly find a value if
you know it's key. They're used heavily
in databases. And if you're interested,
I have a complete in-depth video on my
YouTube channel about data structures
where I cover many data structures in
depth and also talk about time
complexities. [music] If you're
interested, I'll also link that down
below. All right. Now, we're halfway
through CS50 and week six is where we
get into Python. Python is a highle
programming language that is [music]
designed to make coding faster,
readable, and more accessible. It's
super simple to run. No header files, no
semicolons, no main function. For
example, print hello world is all you
do. Unlike a whole file you would have
to write for C, in Python, it's
literally just one line. In fact,
there's a term known as coding [music]
in a Pythonic fashion, which means
coding in as few lines as possible. But
one of my favorite parts about Python is
it supports object-oriented programming.
So, object-oriented programming is a way
of organizing code around objects. An
object is a bundle of data attributes
and behavior grouped together. You can
think of an object like a real world
item. For example, a car has data
attributes such as [music] color and
speed, and it has behaviors such as
accelerating and braking. In
programming, data is stored as
variables, and behaviors are defined as
functions. [music] In object-oriented
programming, we define a blueprint for
objects using something called a class.
A class describes what data an object
will have and what actions it [music]
can perform. When you create a specific
object from a class, that object is
called an instance of that class. And
you can create objects in literally
anything. [music] For example, you might
create a student class with attributes
like name and grade and methods like
study or take exam. Each student in your
program would be an object created from
that class. And overall, this is a huge
advantage in the real world and
personally a reason I love Python way,
way more compared to C. The following
week, week seven of CS50 covers SQL, SQL
or structured query language, which is a
programming language designed for
working with data. Unlike languages such
as C or Python, which are procedural and
follow instructions to execute [music]
something, SQL is declarative. You
describe what data you want, and the
database figures out how to retrieve it.
This makes SQL especially powerful for
analyzing and managing large collections
of data. Let's imagine we're working
with a small database called
students.db. Inside this database, there
are three [music] tables: students,
courses, and enrollments. The student
table stores each students ID, name, and
graduation year. Courses table stores
courses IDs and titles. Enrollments
table links students to the courses they
are taking using those IDs. The most
important SQL keyword to understand is
select. [music]
Select literally means show me data. For
example, if we write the command select
star from [music] students. We are
asking the database to return every row
and every column from the students
table. Select star basically means get
[music] everything. But if you don't
want to select everything, SQL lets you
choose specific attributes. If you only
want student names, [music] you can
write select name from students. This
command returns just the name column and
hides everything else. Another command
you should know when dealing with data
is where. Sometimes you might want to
filter which rows appear in the result.
That's [music] where where comes in. For
example, the command select name from
students where year equals 2026 [music]
tells the database to return only the
student names whose graduation year is
[music] 2026. Where is the conditional
where it has to meet that condition in
order for it to be true to get the data
where where meets the condition where
where shall operate. SQL also includes
built-in functions for analyzing data.
Count allows [music] you to count how
many rows match a query. For example,
select count star from students returns
the total number of students [music] in
the table. Overall, there are a bunch of
powerful commands such as group by,
order by, limit, and join. In fact,
there are so many different types of
joins that I could honestly make a SQL
master class [music] just on the join
command. But for the sake of the video,
we'll keep it brief. So, week seven and
a half is where things start to get
spicy because this is where CS50
introduces [music]
artificial intelligence. Artificial
intelligence or AI refers to computer
systems designed to perform tasks that
normally require human intelligence like
recognizing patterns, making decisions,
or generating language. Even though it
feels like AI is this new hot thing, the
foundations of it have existed for
decades. Some of the earliest forms of
AI came from simple games like a basic
paddle ball game. Like if the ball is
going to the left, move the paddle left.
If the ball is to the right, move the
paddle to the right. Otherwise, stay
still. This is what we call a
deterministic system. Meaning the
behavior is predefined and will always
be the same given the [music] same
input. And as AI continued to grow and
more people researched it, one of its
most prominent branches was machine
learning. So instead of explicitly
telling the computer every rule, machine
learning allows a system to learn
patterns from data. For example, instead
of traditionally programming a computer
to detect spam emails, you can give a
machine learning model thousands of
emails labeled as spam or not spam and
it will learn the patterns that will
[music] separate the two. And
specifically within machine learning,
there are two major categories,
supervised learning and unsupervised
learning. In supervised learning, the
data comes with labels, meaning you
already know the correct answers. So the
example I gave with the emails is
supervised learning because we had the
label of the email being spam or not
spam. And now if you take that same
email data set and remove the spam or
not spam labels, the problem changes
completely. Now the computer is no
longer being told what the right answer
is. And this is where unsupervised
learning comes in. Now instead of the
computer trying to predict if the emails
are spam or not, the computer will try
to analyze [music] the data deeply. The
system might start grouping emails based
on similarities and notices. It might
cluster emails with lots of links and
promotional language together, group
sort personal messages into another
cluster and separate newsletters into
their own group. Right now the goal
isn't to predict certain emails, but it
is to cluster the existing data and
derive insights [music] from it.
Supervised learning answers the
question, what will happen next?
Unsupervised learning answers the
question, what patterns exist now? And
in CS50, they go on to talk about way
bigger things like neural networks and
how those are mapping to large language
models like the ones you see in ChatGpt.
So, [music] it gets pretty exciting. The
next two weeks of CS50 shift topics to
talk more about the web, and I love this
stuff. Week 8 of CS50 is all about the
internet. The internet is just a massive
system that [music] lets computers talk
to each other. Your phone, laptop,
tablet don't actually connect to the
internet [music] at once. Instead, they
connect to nearby networks which connect
to bigger networks which all link
together. That's why the internet is
often described as a network of
networks. But how does it actually work?
Well, when you send something online
like a photo, the photo doesn't actually
travel all together as one piece.
Instead, it gets split into small pieces
so it can move faster, more efficiently.
Then these pieces travel independently
across the internet, sometimes taking
different paths to reach the [music]
same destination. Once they arrive, the
receiving computer puts them back
together in the correct order. Now, you
might ask, how does the computer know
how to put things back in the correct
order? Well, that's where TCP [music]
comes in. TCP is transmission control
protocol, and it helps keep track of
pieces to put them back in order, and if
anything goes missing, it [music] asks
for it again. That's why loading a web
page usually feels reliable because of
TCP. [music] And even if it might be
slow from time to time, it still works
and you get the full website. But then
you have a different bucket of things on
the internet like video calling or
online games which are intensive and
require a lot of speed. Cuz imagine
you're on a video call with someone and
every time you ask a question there's so
much lag like it feels like they're
responding 5 minutes later after you ask
a question. That would be a horrible
experience. And that's exactly why there
is a different protocol called UDP, user
datagramgram protocol, which prioritizes
speed overall. This protocol optimizes
for sending data [music] and will keep
going even if a tiny piece of the data
gets lost because a small glitch in your
video call is way better than the whole
thing freezing. And another important
concept to know about the internet is
that websites are built using HTML.
[music]
HTML tells the browser what content
exists and how it's organized. It
defines things like headings,
paragraphs, images, lists, [music] and
tables. The browser reads this file,
organizes it internally, and turns it
into the web page you see on your
screen. Week nine of CS50 continues on
the internet, but focuses on the
fundamentals of serverside web
programming using Python and Flask. The
core idea is simple. Python is no longer
just running programs on your computer.
[music] It is now running a server and
sending responses to a web browser.
Every time someone types a website
address and presses enter, the browser
asks a server for information. Flask is
that communication tool. [music] It
allows Python to receive that request,
run code, and send something back to the
browser. And there are specifically two
major concepts I want to focus on within
Flask called routes and [music]
templates. So first, routes. A route
connects a URL to a Python function. So
when a specific URL is visited, Flask
will run a function. For example,
whenever someone visits the homepage of
your website, you might want to run a
function that stores their information.
Or if they're on the about page, you
might want to run a different function.
[music] It's basically the connection
between the website to the code
execution dynamically. The next concept
is templates. And templates control what
the page actually looks like. A template
is just an HTML file, but this can
receive data from Python. So, Python
sends values to the template and the
template inserts them into the [music]
page automatically. For example, say
you're building a website that displays
Stephen Curry's latest basketball
[music] stats. Inside the HTML template,
instead of hard coding, you might use
placeholders like points made and shots
attempted. Then you have Python code
that updates the stats to the latest
scores anytime someone visits [music]
that website. That way, you'll always
have the latest information. And now for
the final week 10 of CS50. This is the
closing week. And this week, they pretty
much offer general advice for students
who have taken the course. And so for
this part, I'm not going to summarize
what CS50 said, but for everyone who's
watched this video up until this point,
first of all, [music] thank you. I
really hope that you got a lot of value
out of this. And here is my final piece
of heartfelt advice to you guys. So, we
covered a lot of information in this
video. And for some people, they can
watch this video and feel overwhelmed.
[music]
They'll think, "Oh, there's so much to
learn. I don't know if I can handle it.
This is so complicated." Or even worse,
they'll see other people who are
succeeding and they'll feel left behind.
And [music] so speaking to you
sincerely, I want to be straight up with
you. You do not need to master [music]
everything I covered in this video in
order to be successful. In fact, you
don't even need to master half the
things I covered. In fact, if you could
just master one of the things I talked
about really, really well, you will beat
99% of [music] people. And I know I
might appear smart in front of you guys
because I'm like talking [music] to you
guys on a camera, but truth be told,
there is so much I don't know about the
world of technology. There's so many
things I'm constantly learning. And the
way that I approach learning is to try
to focus on one subject in depth. So if
you're watching this video, maybe you
focus on Python super [music] in-depth.
You do a deep dive into it, do coding
projects into it, and try to become a
master in [music] Python because the
world of technology is extremely vast.
So you can learn anything. [music] You
just can't learn everything, especially
all at once. If you're a beginner
learning to code, I would encourage you
to focus super well on learning one
language the best. Become an expert in
it such that you become known for
knowing that language and can do [music]
cool things with it. In fact, when I was
in college, there would be so many
people who would claim they know this
language, this language, like 15
different languages. But at the end of
the day, it was shallow knowledge. They
only knew how to print hello world in
those languages. And trust me, that
won't get you very far. [music] Instead,
stay focused, stay disciplined. Don't
compare yourselves to others, especially
since you're doing pretty well yourself.
I mean, think about it. This video has
been pretty long, and not a lot of
people would have had the discipline to
even stay this far. But I'm proud of
you. You're doing really good. You are
truly taking this commitment to your
education [music]
seriously. And because of that, I have
full confidence that you will be
successful going into your [music]
coding and tech future. Well, I really
hope that you guys enjoyed this video
and got a lot of value out of it. It
took me a long time to research,
synthesize, and break down all this
information to present it to you guys.
And so, if you guys do like videos like
this, I would really appreciate it if
you let me know what your thoughts are
down below in the comments. And if you
could hit the like button and subscribe
if you haven't already. I also have an
absolutely free tech newsletter [music]
down below in the description below if
you're interested. And now that you have
seen this video, if you're interested in
learning about some of the mistakes I
made along the way while learning to
code, you might like this video right