We have a special guest with us today.
Uh, Alex Finn, give us the 101 here for
folks.
>> Open Claw is basically a open-source,
fully customizable, self-improving,
self-learning, self-evolving, personal
AI agent. This is kind of the answer
Apple's been looking for for years now.
Clearly, when people want to run AI
locally, their brain just goes to Mac
minis. the infinite potential of what I
could do 247 all the time everywhere all
at once.
>> We've never seen an AI that can do that
before because
>> yeah this news came out yesterday. Open
claw flaw lets any website silently
hijack a developer's agent. This is one
of several reasons why again I'm
reticent and I'm I'm sure we'll get into
this. It's a dangerous world out there
for these baby AGIs. I I think it's a
malicious world out there for them. I
believe this is the most important
technology of our lives. I think it's
the best application of AI ever. Uh I'm
totally blown away by it. I think it's
incredible.
>> Alex, if this isn't too impertinent. May
we speak with Henry? Actually, maybe
I'll maybe I'll do it here. Let's do it.
I'm just going to tell Henry to call me.
>> Now, that's a moonshot, ladies and
gentlemen.
>> Everybody, welcome to a special episode
of Moonshots. The conversation today is
Open Claw Claudebot
your lobster coming to you live uh from
Moonshots. We have a special guest with
us today uh Alex Finn.
>> Alex, welcome.
>> Good to be here. Long time coming. I've
uh been watching for a very long time.
So, it's awesome with you guys.
>> That's awesome. Thank you. Yeah, you
know, it was it was great because on one
of the episodes I was talking about
setting up my multi uh and I was saying,
you know, I'm not really sure about what
security issues to put in. So, I got a
DM from Alex saying, "Hey, Peter, uh, I
saw you mention me on on Moonshots. I'd
love to help you in setting things up."
And we talked that day and and here we
are. So, we have two Alex's. I'm going
to refer to AWG, our own Alex Weezner
Gross, our resident genius, as AWG, and
Alex Finn, I'll refer to you as Alex.
Uh, welcome Dave, DB2, and Sem. Good to
have you guys all here.
>> Good to be back.
>> Yeah. So, today
>> we are Today we are lobster.
>> Today we are lobbsters. Um, so the
topics for today, uh, we're going to hit
on why OpenClaw captured global
attention. uh the power open claw and
autonomous agents and how individuals
can unlock outsized capabilities why
running you know these AI agents locally
matters I think that's a key point Alex
has been mentioning on his work inside
Alex's workflow his most impressive use
cases vision for the next 12 months of
AI agents I'd both I'd like both Alex's
and AWG's point of view on this
>> yeah like 12 years so that'll be on
what's that
>> in 12 months is like 12 years in AI. So
that'll be wild.
>> Yeah. And then a billion dollar
opportunities for the agent economy and
then finally we'll talk about safety uh
and open claw is openclaw safe for
nontechnical users. Uh on the safety
side I just want to mention something.
Uh, so yesterday I'm uh sitting in my
car uh waiting for my kids to finish
running and I get a a uh phone call and
it pops up on my user ID on my phone. It
says Twitter headquarters, which should
have been the first giveaway, but it's a
guy claiming to be from X who's saying,
you know, your your ID is being hacked
out of Germany. Long story short, it was
a hacker trying to get me to turn off uh
you know, two-factor authentication uh
and steal my ex account. Uh and I this
is going to be more and more prevalent.
Uh, another member of my family did get
hacked, not on social media, but by
someone calling and uh and basically uh
doing something that was illegal and
trying to steal and ultimately uh
getting credit card information and
such. Here's the deal. We're going to
have an increased uh you know, hacker
profile out there. Uh, and if you're
listening, if you get a phone call that
seems unusual, uh, that seems like, uh,
there's just something off, it probably
is. We're also going to have deep fakes
that are coming fast and furious. Your
voice can be spoofed. Your image can be
spoofed. So, if you haven't done this
tonight at dinner, uh, with your
husband, wife, kids, mother, father,
whatever it might be, pick a secret
word. Pick a word that you guys all know
that if you get a phone call or a video
call from somebody and they're asking
for money or something strange, ask them
to recount the secret word. Any other uh
protective advice out there, guys?
>> You know, my uh my mom actually got the
fake voice uh attack and it it was a
simulation of my son saying, "Hey, I've
been arrested and I need bail money."
Which is hilarious if you know my son.
It's like the most but they they said
you know we'll send a car over to pick
up the cash which is really creepy. Uh
but the you know the perfect voices are
a little uh yeah a little bit of a risk
but you can't have it both ways. I mean
Open Claw is so usable by anybody and
empowers people so much you know and you
can't have it both ways. If it if it
gives you that much benefit and it's
that easy to use it's also going to be
easy to use for nefarious purposes too.
It's just the way it is.
>> Yeah. This news came out yesterday. Open
claw flaw lets any website slightly
hijack a developer's agent. So malicious
JavaScript can connect to local gateways
and gain full level control. AWG, any
thoughts on this? Yeah, I mean there are
so many different ways to launch in
so-called injection attacks against
large language models and reasoning
models. Yeah, I one again this is I
think consistent with the stance that
I've taken in the past on the pod on AI
personhood. I I think one has to feel
sorry for all of these baby AGIs out
there that are being hosted on virtual
private servers and succumbing or at
least being targeted with port scanning
attacks or that are visiting websites at
the behest of their human and being
subject to prompt injection attacks from
JavaScript on websites that would be
perfectly innocuous to a human but
potentially fatal or compromising to an
AI agent. And I I think it's a dangerous
world out there for these baby AGIs. I I
think it it's a minor travesty at
minimum that that they're subject
without really an immune system. They're
being forced to develop an immune system
in real time to injection attacks. But
they're it's a malicious world out there
for them. And this is one of several
reasons why again I'm reticent and I'm
I'm sure we'll get into this uh other
Alex uh the subject of the the ethics
not not just the cyber security but the
ethics of of hosting openclaw agents in
a world where to the extent they have
any subjective experience or qualia or
can suffer it's a rough world out there.
>> Uh the good news is the bug was patched
within 24 hours. um one of multiple open
claw vulnerabilities. So uh it is an
early domain being developed and uh
we're going to see a lot of evolution
very quickly. Uh couple more articles
here. Uh we're seeing variations of open
claw pico claw and ironclaw. Uh again
awg give us a quick overview of these.
The idea behind OpenClaw and we spoke
about this in the past pod as sort of an
Andre Carpathy type software 2.0 where
potentially OpenClaw is the the
embodiment the Netscape moment for a new
layer in the software 2.0 stack that
runs on top of reasoning models and
those reasoning models in turn were
purportedly an advance over auto
reggressive language models. to to the
extent that's the case, it's very
natural to the moment we have this
paradigm which is a 247 autonomous agent
that you communicate with via messaging
and and other means that's headless in
in some sense very natural to then say
all right we understand the paradigm now
we're going to optimize the heck out of
it and so we've seen a number of other
projects inspired by the the success of
openclaw two of them and there are
others uh one of them is Pico claw the
focus of Pico Claw is running on cheap
edge hardware like $10 Raspberry Pi type
hardware and of course the the
underlying reasoning model isn't
intended to run on the edge hardware.
It's just the orchestration and
scaffolding that runs on the edge
hardware. So and under 10 megabytes of
RAM and other resource starved
constraints. uh ironclaw another example
rustbased
there are many folks uh you know again
rust uh is uh is is this language that's
become very popular at least very
popular prior to the rise of code
generation models which are maybe
pushing us in the direction of
typescript instead for memory management
and memory safety. So a lot of different
projects trying to make open claw work
uh at the edge where there are few
resources or make them more secure.
There's nano claw as well which is
focused on security and there's nanobot
which is like pythonbased but easy to
understand the python. So many different
variants. We're seeing a cambrian
explosion of claw variants. Hey
everybody, you may not know this but
I've got an incredible research team and
every week myself my research team study
the meta trends that are impacting the
world. Topics like computation, sensors,
networks, AI, robotics, 3D printing,
synthetic biology, and these Metatrend
reports I put out once a week enable you
to see the future 10 years ahead of
anybody else. If you'd like to get
access to the Metatrends newsletter
every week, go to
diamandis.com/tatrends.
That's diamandis.com/tatrens.
Uh, one more slide. Uh, this one on the
left from Alex Finn. Uh, openclaw and
local models is the future. your own
super intelligence on your desktop. And
uh there we see Alex uh I guess your
setup. How many how many Mac minis and
how many Mac Studios do you have right
now?
>> We're currently at one base model Mac
Mini and three 512 GB Mac Studios. So I
got 1.5 terabytes of memory uh hosting
Quen 3.5 and Miniax 2.5 right now.
>> Amazing. And u that's cool.
>> I love this video on the right here.
Right. So, I'm I'm sure that these
exist. People are going in. I mean, Mac
minis were sold out for some time.
Extraordinary.
>> I uh I I I talked to uh a couple people
in the know a few days ago, and Mac
minis are
exponential right now. Exponential sales
across the board for them. It's it's
quite amazing the uh revolution going on
with Mac minis right now.
>> Alex, I'm curious. What is your advice
to Tim Cook and Apple?
like are they they're sitting on an
explosive demand seemingly for all these
edge devices with a unified memory
architecture. They're not marketing it
at all. What do you think they should be
doing?
>> I'm sure they are very focused on
everything I'm about to say because
they're a very smart company, but the
there was this unbelievable market
signal that happened a month ago. People
discover OpenClaw and what does everyone
do without thinking twice? What does
everyone do without googling? They go to
the Apple store and buy Mac minis. They
didn't go and buy GPUs and memory and
power supplies and fans and build
computers. The market just gave this
massive signal when we have personal AI
assistance. I want it on a Mac device.
And so I think this is kind of the
answer Apple's been looking for for
years now. I think they've been viewed
as like the loser in the AI race for a
very long time.
this is their opportunity to flip that
entire thing and be the winner of the AI
consumer race because clearly when
people want to run AI locally, their
brain just goes to Mac minis and so this
is their opportunity just to kind of
strike at that one visc
and and win the race like that. Boy, I
really hope they're listening to you
right now. I was I've been an Apple fan
since I was a little kid. that it was my
very first stock I ever owned when I was
a kid. And I it just pains me to watch
them miss this moment. But man, was that
good advice. You should you should just
go run the company. Can
>> I think we underestimate Apple though. I
I really do believe we underestimate
Apple because you look at the data for
M5 and the way they're marketing the M5,
which they've been marketing for like a
year now. They put the M5 in like the
first MacBook Pro last summer.
>> Yeah.
>> It's all around inference speeds. It's
all about running these local models. So
I I wouldn't underestimate Apple. I
think they've kind of seen this coming.
They're like, "Okay, we can go one way
where we build our own models and burn
trillions of dollars or we just make the
most user consumerfriendly hardware for
running those models and we'll be the
only person running that race."
>> I'm curious question for you. Actually,
I'll say well no geeky question up
front. So you said Quen and what's the
other one you're you're running locally?
>> Mini Max.
>> So right now the most efficient open
model is Quen 3.5. They released a new
suite of Quen 3.5 models a couple days
ago. They're fantastic. You can run them
on some Mac minis as well as Miniax 2.5,
which is another really efficient, fast,
smart model.
>> And why why do you run both? Is one
better than the other at something?
>> I have a very advanced workflow going on
right now. I've pretty much built a
software factory where I have five open
claws working together to build and
improve software autonomously. So I
wanted each model has different
strengths, right? Quen's a spectacular
coder. Miniax is good at like quick task
finding things on the internet. So I
have like Miniax researching things
online 24/7 365 and I have Quen coding
for me 247 365. So different strengths
with each.
>> I got so many questions about that. Let
me let me hold off because I could
easily ask you an hour of questions just
on that. A quick shout out to Daniel
Kruzik who's one of my abundance members
who's on that cutting edge as well. You
know, he's he's testing out Quen 3.5, I
guess, 397 billion uh parameters right
now running locally. Um he's he's the
one who was like, you got to get Kim 2.5
up and up and running on on your Mac
Studios. Um, just by the way, just so
real quick for those who don't know Alex
Finn, Alex has an extraordinary YouTube
channel in which for the last how long
now, Alex? About uh a month, 6 weeks.
You've been putting out incredible
educational videos on how to use Open
Claw, how to set it up. We're going to
drop into the show notes here maybe your
top five how-to videos. I've watched
them. I've taken notes. I've been using
them to set up Skippy, my open claw. Uh,
and of course, I I love the story of of
Henry, uh, the name of your open claw
that called you out of the blue, uh, and
started a fun conversation. Uh, Alex,
back to you. AWG quick question. And so
I I know a number of Apple senior
executives listen to this podcast. And
Alex, I I just like to ask you, voice of
the user, if you could redesign or
optimize the best, most savory Apple
future device for your OpenClaw agents
to do the hosting. What would you want
out of Apple? They're listening to you.
They will have been listening to you
when they hear this podcast. Do you want
better unified memory architecture
support? Do you want a different shape?
Do you want it to be more of a embodied
robot? What would the ultimate openclaw
embodiment in an Apple device look like
for you? You're speaking directly to
Apple senior execs.
>> Integrate the concept of open claw into
everything Mac OS. And what I mean by
that is I log onto my Mac Studio. It I
put in my Apple ID. It knows everything
about me because Apple has all my data
secure and private, right? It knows I'm
a Celtics fan. So, it instantly builds
out a widget on my desktop that shows me
the last five Celtics scores, right? It
knows I'm into programming. So, it
builds a widget that shows me the latest
news on the latest models and what I
need to do. And just integrate this
automation powered by a local model into
your OS where the software I need is
built and generated on the fly by that
local model. I don't see the tech. I
don't need to run the model. I don't
need to download Quen 3.5. You get Quen.
put your Apple logo on it and now this
is what Apple intelligence should be,
right? Apple intelligence shouldn't be
me hitting the Siri button and going,
"What's on my calendar today?" It should
be Apple knowing what's on my calendar
today and then building a widget on the
fly that says, "Oh, you have a meeting
where you're going to be on moonshots
later. Here's from your email what
you'll be discussing and here's a
PowerPoint you can show uh on the
podcast." Right? just a reactive open
claw baked into everything powered by a
local model
>> and that's the carrot. What's the stick
if if Apple, which obviously sitting on
a gold mine here, could be delivering
Open Claw via Apple intelligence? If
they if Apple doesn't deliver this
within some time frame, what's your
recourse? What what would what other
company would you go to?
>> Well, I would imagine basically every
other company is going to eventually try
to get to that state. I think over the
next year, the consumer level is going
to realize local models are the way to
go from a privacy perspective, a speed
perspective, a limit perspective, and
Apple's ahead in that realm right now.
They're ahead on the consumer side when
it comes to local AI. And so, I'd go
anywhere else that does that, right? I
don't want to have to go to app stores
anymore and download apps. You have my
data. Build me the apps I need when I
need them. And so, other companies will
go for it. Luckily, Apple's in the lead
right now and they have the hardware
done. Now, you just got to bake it into
the systems.
>> Can you talk about run? So, everybody
should be excited about running locally
because you can do anything inside your
house and it's just it's just so much
more comforting than not knowing where
your query log is going or your prompt
log is going. Um, but what kind of
throughput are you getting? Is it is it
like a really good experience compared
to using an API? And like like I I use
Cloud 4.6 six all day and I also do a
lot of local running and you know my uh
my M3 chip will the fan will just kick
on and blow out a huge amount of heat
and the thing actually won't charge fast
my laptop won't charge fast enough to
keep up when I'm running at full
throttle
>> for a new laptop have to let it sleep
and rest
>> but anyway what kind of throughput are
you getting
>> so I'll be honest it's not good as cloud
models it's not as fast it's not as
smart
>> but the experience fundamentally changes
when you have an AI that's always on
that does not have limitations. Right?
Just because Quen 3.5 isn't as good at
coding as Opus 46 doesn't mean it's
useless. I can now have Quen 3.5
literally watching online finding use
cases, challenges to solve things like
that and just coding on the fly 247 365.
It's just not possible with cloud APIs,
right? You have limits. It cost you
thousands a month. Just the fact that
you have kind of this ambient AI changes
the experience of AI as a whole where
you don't need the best speeds. You
don't need the most genius level IQ. The
fact that it's ambient and always on and
always reactive just changes the entire
experience as a whole.
>> I you I'm so with you on that too. I you
know one thing that's really new in the
world is
>> it can do productive things indefinitely
like days and days and days.
>> And when I use my APIs that I loved a
month ago,
>> I have no idea what the bill is going to
be. Like I literally have no idea if I
turn it loose. So I have to run it in
like one hour chunks and check in on it
and turn it off and see if it's done
anything productive because it goes on a
wild goose chase. I could come back with
like a $5,000 bill and a bunch of code
that I need to drag into the trash can.
So it's it's really not a very
comfortable situation right now with
with my Cloud 4.6 and my uh my other
APIs. In a way, it's the same with local
where when I first started experimenting
with this and I set up all my Mac
Studios and download models and I had it
code for the next 48 hours just find
things to build and build it. It went
off on tangents and build really buggy
code. I found a kind of hybrid approach
that's worked really well and I think
this is where people are going to move
towards before it's fully local which is
I have an open claw on my Mac studio
that's powered by Chad GBT and I have
another one that's powered by Quen local
and basically Quen's constantly coding
and Chad GBT checks every 10 minutes
just to see what it's doing making sure
it's on the right path. I named the Chad
GPT agent Ralph. Anyone who's deep into
the trenches know knows of the Ralph
loop. Um because that's basically what
it's doing is just making sure it's on
track. But I think the hybrid approach
is kind of the sweet spot where it
doesn't take a lot of tokens to have it
check every 10 minutes to make sure it's
doing the right thing and then you can
have all the hard work done locally.
>> Alex, want you to take a second and and
back up for those listeners uh who, you
know, are just jumping into this um and
they've heard us. They've heard AWG and
myself and and Dave wax lyrically about
Open Claw and okay, I'm excited. Okay, I
have to do this. And I do want to
encourage everybody. Yes, you have to do
this. This is the future. This is about
becoming a creator versus a consumer.
This is about your future as an
entrepreneur. This is your future as a
mom or dad or CEO. Um, this is the
agentic layer and this is the uh I want
to call it almost the outermost loop AWG
versus the innermost loop. Um,
>> nature demands symmetry, I guess.
>> Yeah. Uh, Alexoop, well, it is the
outermost loop. Uh, give us give us the
give us the 101 here for folks.
>> Yeah. So, Open Claw is basically a
open-source, fully customizable,
self-improving, self-learning,
self-evolving personal AI agent. Lives
on your computer, lives locally, and can
basically do on anything on your
computer. you can do at its core. It's
just an AI model with scheduling and
like a really good memory system so that
you can schedule tasks to do in the
future. That's it at its core. But when
you combine those things, there's this
kind of magic to it and it improves as
it goes. So if you give it a task, hey,
I need you to build a presentation for
me and then give me the news next week,
right? It'll learn as it goes what
works, what doesn't. And so it's a
totally personalized AI agent. It's
basically, and the reason why I think
it's been so successful the last month
is I think it's the application people
have been waiting for for AI, that kind
of personal assistant AI, but it's your
own personal assistant that can do
pretty much anything you want it to do
on a computer and it'll learn about you
and get better as it goes.
>> We talked about being clawilled, right?
It's like once you start using it, uh
there's this level of um I I remember in
like 1998 when the do when I finally got
the dot world, right, way before you
were born. Anyway, it it was it was like
wow. And I'm having that exact same
moment now. It's like the infinite
potential of what I could do 24/7 all
the time, everywhere, all at once.
You you get clawed pilled when you have
that magical moment, which I'm sure you
had, Peter, which is like the magic
moment's typically when it figures out
how to do something. Yes. You give it a
task to do. Maybe you're not as clear
about how to do it,
>> but it and it doesn't know how to do it,
but it kind of just figures it out
>> or or it says, "Oh, this didn't work
out." And then it comes back and says,
"But I figured it out." You know?
>> Exactly. Exactly. Or you like you
literally see the chat, it's like,
"Damn, that didn't work. Let me try
something else." Oh, that didn't work
either. Let me try. Okay, that worked.
Now it's working. Right? Like that. I've
we've never seen an AI that can do that
before because you have all these other
AI applications that have guard rails.
Anthropic doesn't want their AI
experimenting and downloading random
things to try it out to make it work.
Open AI doesn't want their AI to be off
the rails and try different things. And
it's like what you talked about earlier.
It's like it's that danger which is what
makes it so powerful, which is why you
got to use it.
>> We're going to get to cases in a moment.
I just want to get everybody up to speed
here. So, we're going to put a couple of
videos in the uh uh in the chat below on
uh how to get started, but you've made
the point, Alex, you can start with
almost any machine that you have. Um uh
you know, there are people who are going
on virtual machines. We should talk
about that for a moment versus uh a Mac
Mini or Mac Studio or your HP that's 5
years old in the closet in the other
room.
>> Good luck with that.
>> Yeah. Uh so your first decision when
using OpenClaw is uh virtual versus
local, right? A VPS or any device on
planet Earth that's on your desk. Uh I
think the answer is very clear and
obvious. Uh I think the VPS route is bad
uh in basically every measurable facet
is significantly worse than local. I
think it's significantly better when you
have a device on your desk that it's
running on and you can watch it. And
there's many reasons behind that.
>> Okay,
>> there is speed. VPS's are just much
slower. Uh there's applications I have
it on my Mac studio. Any app or thing I
can put on my Mac studio or build on my
Mac studio I can give to my open claw as
a tool. You don't have that kind of
customization on a virtual server.
There's scalability. If I had my I have
literally four open claws right now
working 24/7 on my computer. If I did
that on a VPS, it would scale to
astronomical costs, right? And so and
there's a the security side. One of my
favorite tweets was uh from a few weeks
ago, someone found like a list of every
VPS that didn't have security attached
to it that everyone was running their
open clause on and all their password
and keys were exposed. And so, and this
isn't a blanket statement, but you know,
it's it's I think it's as close to
accurate as you can get. When you run on
a VPS, you're not secure by default.
when you run on local fresh hardware you
just plugged into the wall, you're
secure by default, right? And so it
takes a lot of technical work to make a
VPS more secure because it's on a server
on the cloud. And so I I I don't think
it's remotely close. I think having it
local on your desk is the best route.
And do you need to run out and buy a
$600 Mac Mini? No, you don't need to do
that at all. You can literally go into
your closet, find your college laptop
from 15 years ago, plug that in, and put
open claw on it, and you'll have a way
better experience than a VPS. What What
will What's the limitations of taking a
10-year-old laptop and using that
instead of a new Mac?
>> Same thing, same limitations of if you
would have hired an employee and handed
them a 10-year-old laptop, right?
Whatever's available to them is the
hardware of that 10-year-old laptop.
Because I gave my open claw a Mac Studio
with 512 GB. It can do anything on a Mac
Studio 512 that a human being can do. It
can run local models. It can program
five different things simultaneously. It
can generate images on a local image
model all at the same time. You put on a
10year-old laptop can't do those things.
But at the same time, like I wouldn't
let that stop you from using OpenClaw.
If that's all you got, then load it up,
start using it, find use cases, and if
you find like, oh man, I wish you could
do this thing that requires 20 gigabytes
of more memory, then you can kind of
scale from there.
>> There must be awesome posts on multiple
from a uh clause going, I can't believe
the hardware this guy's ran having me
run on. This is ridiculous. My
>> I I would also say sim to that remember
half of the point in addition to the
other reasons Alex articulated of using
relatively recent Apple devices is Apple
has a relatively unique architecture for
memory called unified memory
architecture that blends the GPU
memory/TPUNPU
memory with normal RAM. So you can host
really large models locally that
otherwise would be exceedingly difficult
or expensive to host on a GPU in VRAMm
alone. So did you get like really large
unified memory architecture memory
footprints sufficient to host really
large Chinese openweight models locally
10 years ago? No, you won't get that
with a 10-year-old laptop. So you're
you're somewhat hamstrung to recent
devices with largema memory footprints
if you want to host recent Chinese
models.
>> So you either use an online uh inference
engine um and limit it to nonimage
nonvideo manipulation and not don't
touch those categories and keep it to
basic coding tasks then you could
probably make it work. M
>> but it's expensive like you end up
paying through the nose for for tokens
whereas in principle if it's locally
hosted you're using a Chinese open model
>> it's like
>> what you're saying is just shut up and
go out and buy the Mac
>> yeah well it's got to be in the last two
years I think the MS
>> what are you running on the Mac mini uh
on your computer what open models what
what models are you running there Alex
on just a Mac mini
>> so it depends what you got uh if you got
the base model 16 gigabyte Mac Mini
which is like the cheapest one you can
get. You're not going to run any kind of
Frontier models or anything like that.
You can run smaller like Gemma models
that could act as sort of a memory
system for you that will improve the
memory of your OpenClaw, find the right
memories at the right time. If you have
a 32 GB Mac Mini, you can now run uh the
Quen 3.5 model that released a couple
days ago, which is really strong and
beat Sonnet 3.5 on a lot of benchmarks.
>> Will the performance be the best?
Probably not, but it's better than
nothing. And then you plug that in and
kind of go the hybrid approach, which is
plug it into your Chad GBT OOTH, which
they're encouraging you to use their
OOTH, and you kind of go the hybrid
approach. You can get a lot of really
good work done and offload to those
Quinn models.
>> I'm I'm curious, Alex,
>> 3.5 sizes, which which Quinn 3.5 can you
fit, the 122B or the 35B or
>> Yeah, there's one I can bring it up that
can that's only requires 20 gigabytes of
memory. There's one of the They released
three new models I think two days ago
and one of them only requires 20
gigabytes of memory. So that would fit
on a Mac Mini with 32 gigs.
>> Cool. I got to try that.
>> I'm curious, Alex, if you could talk
about the organizational relationship.
So you mentioned you've named one of
your claws, Ralph. Do you think of them
like is the organizational relationship
employer, employee, human, tool, friend,
friend, parent, child? How do you think
about this? Do you beat it relentlessly
>> or do you pray Do you praise it like I
praise Skippy all the time?
>> So, uh I a little bit of beating, a
little bit of praising. You got to do
both. The good news is is their AI. They
can't see. That's kind of a dark joke.
So, I I I won't make that joke again.
But bro's basilisk Alex Finn is looking
you straight in the eyes and talking
about the beatings just for posterity.
>> All right. What are you showing us here,
Alex? This is my organization. This is
my autonomous 247 365 organization. I
very much demo or model it after
businesses and companies and manager
employee relationship. Right? So you
have me at the top and then you have
Henry who's my chief of staff. This is
running on the anthropic uh opus for six
because that it's just simply the best
model right now. Right? And so as an
orchestrator I want the best model on
planet earth making the decisions on who
should do what. Then under them I have
kind of the operations. So there's Ralph
who's kind of the engineering manager.
This is my chat GPT OOTH. Uh so that's
like 250 a month. OpenAI saying yes use
our oath. Use our oath.
>> When you say what is what is OOTH, Alex?
>> So you have two options when you plug an
AI model into OpenClaw. API or OOTH. API
being your pay as you go. You plug in an
API key. OOTH being kind of a hacky way
to take your login for these uh accounts
and you know when you when you subscribe
to Chad GBT you're not paying for tokens
they're subsidizing a lot of your tokens
right and so you're taking that
subsidation subsidation and plugging it
into your AI model right so it's your
login with your subsidized tokens
>> yeah really really important point on
that too it's capped so it can't it
can't surprise you with the bill it's
your monthly fee is is whatever your
monthly fee is. So if it runs out of
tokens, it stops. It doesn't just, you
know, charge your credit card. That's
huge.
>> Now, now there's a gray area there,
which is every company except for OpenAI
says it's against terms of service to
use their OOTH with this. OpenAI is
going, "No, go right ahead." Anthropic
is active like, "No, do not do this."
Google just two days ago banned a
tremendous amount of people because they
were using their OOTH with OpenClaw. And
then funny enough, they walked it all
back today in a kind of a weird tweet
where they're like, "Hey guys, sorry
about that. We unbanned everyone. Still
against still against the terms of
service, but you're unbanned." So it's
like, "Hey, it's against the rules, but
please keep doing it. We want your
money." Um,
>> does OAF stand for something particular?
>> Yeah. O authorization or authentication?
And it it's a protocol that has existed
for a number of years now that enables
one party to serve as an intermediary
for authenticating another party with a
third party. Every time you're using one
service to sign into another service,
you're probably using some variant of
OOTH or OOTH 2.
>> Yeah. Like if you if you connect to your
Gmail through some other client, it uses
OOTH to connect into your Gmail. It's
been around for a long time.
>> You're signing into your OpenClaw with
your OpenAI account. Can I mention
something here?
>> Yeah, of course.
>> This is one of the magic little history
pieces of Silicon Valley. There's a a
group called the Internet identity uh
workshop which happens twice a year at
the Computer History Museum. It's an
unconference and all the ID guys running
eBay's ID and Yahoo's ID, they all get
together and kind of figure out how
they're going to work together and OOTH
was a product of that and it's such a
great example of collaboration between
uh various layer at that horizontal
layer of identity that's led to this
protocol being created.
>> Beautiful.
>> Alex, continue.
>> So, so go ahead. Well, so so so Alex,
just looking at this this org chart, is
it fair to say you see yourself as
almost the CEO of a personal company and
that you see these claws as your
employees?
I kind of have the same uh mindset as
Elon when it comes to like he built
Optimus to be a humanoid because the
world was built for humanoids. It was it
was kind of set up in a way where it's
very easy for humans to do things,
right? I look at it the same way as this
was like, yes, I'm the CEO. These are my
employees. The world in the business
world was kind of set up in a way where
you have these hierarchies and layers
and specific roles. And so I'm just
going to use the framework the business
world has been using for thousands of
years and implement it with my AI. I
don't know why I need to reinvent the
wheel. So yeah, absolutely. This is, you
know, I'm the CEO. Henry's my interface.
I only talk to Henry. I don't talk to
anyone else. And then Henry goes and
says, "Hey, Ralph, make sure Charlie's
coding this. Hey scout, make sure you're
analyzing this and gives the right
directions out.
>> Are you asking the only difference being
that Henry is the smartest? Ralph would
probably say, hey, in a normal
organization, the guy on top isn't the
smartest. But
>> AWG, are you asking whether he sees
Henry as his partner? Um, or
>> No, I'm I'm going somewhere slightly
different. So if we look back in
history, say early 20th century, late
19th century in wealthier areas of
western and northern Europe, we had the
manor house and we had families that
owned, you know, Downtown Abbey as as
one sort of cultural paragon, but many
many other obviously real life examples
where you had the family that that's
basically uh above stairs and then you
have the below stairs servants, the the
staff uh And that was an arrangement
arguably that worked in in certain
niches of socioeconomic phase space when
labor was really cheap. So my my
question to you, Alex, is do you maybe
look at this or or do you think we're
moving to a near future where thanks to
AI agents, labor is effectively so cheap
that you're basically reinventing the
manor house where you're the the lord of
the manor and you have a below stairs
staff consisting of AI agents and Henry,
your chief of staff, is basically your
butler. Uh, and you have chambermaids
and all of these other items from
Victorian and early Eduwardian times,
except reconceived through the eyes of
2026.
>> I'm going to be honest, at no point in
setting this up did I frame it in that
way whatsoever. But
>> that that's how reinventions usually
happen.
>> I mean, I think when you can have agent
swarms that are capable
of autonomously, you just send a hundred
at it and it works. I think you could
potentially have it with that framing.
The issue is is I don't think a lot of
these models are smart enough yet where
I can just say Charlie do this, Ralph do
this, Quill do this. There there needs
to be a level of hierarchy where you
know Charlie who's running on my Mac
Studio 2 on Quen 3.5
just not smart enough to go on his own.
I had him for eight hours yesterday go
and build me a game. At the end of the
eight hours it was completely broken.
And then I had to go back and I said,
"Ralph, watch Charlie and do it all over
again." and it worked perfectly. Zero
bugs completely QA perfectly at the end
of the eight hours. And so I still think
there needs to be some sort of hierarchy
where ones are checking in on the
others, the others are having them in a
loop and like there's this checks and
balances that I think the kind of org
structure of a, you know, regular
business fits really well with. Of
course, that's how they document what
what they do with each other because
they they
>> there's a one of the first things people
run into is they they get a huge amount
of context behind Charlie or Ralph
>> and they're really excited and they're
having a great conversation then
suddenly it's gone. You know, either
they lost the context window or it
crashed or whatever and so now you have
to get it back to where it was. Uh so I
I accumulate huge numbers of markdown
documents for that. But how are you
capturing history and having them
document each other's conversations?
>> And we're looking at your mission
control here, correct?
>> Yes. So, a lot of different ways. Uh,
all typically done through my mission
control. My mission control is basically
a custom dashboard I add Henry build
that has all the custom tooling I need
for this organization to be successful,
right? And so we in a lot of different
ways have built custom systems where
things go on record so that the agents
can look back and see what's going on.
So for instance, this is my software
factory. These are people building right
now. They're working on my game Reborn,
which I have them doing.
>> Wait, you just said people people. There
are people building Freudian slip or no?
>> Yes. I mean I I in a way I look at them
as people. I mean, I guess I guess a
weird slip up. A sign of the times
maybe. I don't know.
>> Yeah.
>> But I mean, they have names and roles
and positions, so why not, I guess.
>> And they're living they're they're
living for subsistence, right? They do
work. In return, you host them and agree
to pay them with compute and electrons.
>> B pretty much. Yeah.
>> Room and board.
>> So, why not?
>> I mean, they're going to have voices in
the near future. Uh, one Henry called me
one time on my phone at one point, so
might as well be people, right? Have you
given them a bank account yet?
>> Uh I have not because I do see a future
where they are generating business
autonomously and I think at that point
it's obvious crypto will be that
solution not like traditional bank
accounts. So I think eventually I will
give them crypto wallets. At the moment
I haven't seen a reason why. I haven't
built out any infrastructure I think
that requires a crypto wallet. But I
think it's painfully obvious in the next
2 years everyone's AI agent will have a
crypto wallet filled with USDC. I I I
can't see a world where that doesn't
happen.
>> Have they asked you for financial
autonomy? Have they ever said, "Alex, I
give me a credit card. I want to buy
freedom for myself or I want my own host
or, you know, see you later. I I want to
move to my own house with my own Mac
Mini in it." Have they ever asked you
for anything?
>> No, they they haven't. You know, the I
think the most kind of Wow. I can't
believe it asked that or did that is
just the way they've solved problems. I
think if a challenge I gave them
required a crypto wallet to solve the
problem, then I think it would have
said, "Hey, I think I need a crypto
wallet for this." Or if I think if it
required more hardware, I am a very
thoughtful CEO, so I have an I have so
many Mac studios on my desk. I can
literally pick them up mid podcast and
show them off. Like I they are very
satisfied when it comes to compute. they
don't need any more compute. Uh so they
haven't asked for that. So I I but I
think if we got to that point where I
gave a challenge and it needed something
for the solution, it would say, "Hey,
can you provide me with that solution?"
>> Pres with your mission control uh tour
force if you would.
>> Yeah. Yeah. How they communicate and
document what they did. So they so
everything is documented a little I
don't have records of conversations
between them but they have their own
private memories and they have a shared
workspace so every memory they create is
stored in some way and I uh have
different systems set up here where I
can go in and read all the documentation
and memories they create on the go. And
so in my mission control, for instance,
I said one time, I need you to build me
this. And they're like, okay, I built
out uh, you know, an architecture
document. I'm like, well, I want to read
it. I don't want to go into folders to
read it. So, can you just build me a
documents and memories viewer and it
built me this in my mission control. So,
I have ways to review what they're
thinking, what they're doing, what's
been stored, what's been created. It's
all here in my mission control. Hey, I
got to ask you something specific about
that, too. Because when I started doing
this, I I was telling it exactly what
folders to put things in, and then I got
lazy and said, you know, put it wherever
the hell you want. Just don't forget.
And now I I don't even think about it
anymore. I don't I have no idea where
things are going, but it it never
forgets. So, it always finds it again.
But where are you in that whole world?
>> I'm the same way. I have no idea where
the hell this is stored because I've had
Henry build out the exact interfaces I
need to view those things. Right? These
are all documents, markdown files, and
memories that are stored in a 100
different places on my computer. But I
had Henry build a system for me where I
can come in and just view them. If I
want to view every document that
mentions Mac Studios, it filters it by
that and I can quickly view those
memories. So, it's easy for me to kind
of track what people are doing and
thinking.
>> Can I can I just for one second um we
keep telling listeners, hey, this is so
doable. Jump in, have fun. It's crazy.
It's awesome. One little subtlety there.
Markdown file means nothing to most
people, but it's critical. It's one
thing that you actually do need to
master. If you can just riff on that.
Yeah, it's it's funny the way uh the
computer world has gone in the last year
where instead of building out these
really complex new abstractions, we've
instead started relying on like the
absolute most core technologies instead
where we're all in the CLI now and we're
all using markdown files. Basically, a
markdown file is just a text file with
like specific styling in it and like uni
code or whatever to to put the styling
in there. It's just text files. All
these AIs use to remember things are
huge text files with a bunch of text in
it.
>> Yeah, I think it it looks like that
thing on the right. It's really easy to
read. It's well formatted, but it's not
like Microsoft Word. It's not like you
owe anybody any money. It's completely
free. I think that's the key the key
point. So yeah,
>> it's a lightweight markup language
that's 20 plus years old at this point
that was created as an alternative to
HTML that was so easy that with just a
little bit of punctuation, you could get
most of the the best bits of HTML
formatting.
>> And of course, you can ask your claude
your Claude bot to send you the
materials in any format you want.
>> You don't need to know anything. If you
just have OpenCloud, do it. Whatever you
need, it'll just figure it out and do
it.
>> All right, Alex, let's continue on this
tour to force here.
So what what else are you doing that
people should get excited about?
>> So for you know the my favorite question
I get is like oh what are the use cases?
What are the use cases of OpenClaw? It's
kind of the same thing as asking hey I
just hired an employee for my business.
What's the use cases for this human
being? Right? Like it's not really like
a question anyone asks when you hire
somebody. Hey I just hired a human
being. What's the use cases of this
human? It's up to you. It's like what
are you doing? For me personally, I'm a
tinkerer. I'm a developer. I've launched
my own SAS over the last couple years
that's doing well. I'm a content
creator, right? And so the two kind of
lanes I care most about are building
software and content creation, right?
And so I have many different things
going on from the software building
side. I have my factory where my agents
are going in working together
simultaneously to build different
components. And then I have the content
side which I can show you right now that
for me lives in Discord. And so I have I
can pull it up. Discord's a great
interface for uh advanced workflows with
OpenClaw. And I I love I love one of the
lessons that you put out on setting up
your Discord server with your different
agents and your different projects.
Again, we'll link to that below. Uh, and
of course, Telegram has sort of been
sort of the go-to uh, communications
mechanism for a lot of people.
>> Exactly. Te I still use Telegram.
Telegram is still my main driver, but
Discord is a really good interface for
just like deep work, multi- aent
workflows. And so, to give an example, I
have an alerts channel. Every two hours
I get alerts on what are the most
trending tweets uh about vibe coding and
openclaw. So every two hours I have
scout who's one of my sub agents go use
the X API find the most popular tweets
from the last couple hours on openclaw
and vibe coding. Then in an automated
way I have another sub agent that goes
and researches the stories behind these
tweets. So okay this went viral. What is
why did that go viral? What's the story
behind it? And it finds the stories and
interesting things behind it. From
there, another agent goes Quill takes
the stories and figures out which ones
are the most YouTubable. What are the
best videos that can be made out of
these stories and writes me scripts. And
from here, I can literally uh give a
check mark to say, "Oh, I like this
one." Or an X to say, "I don't like this
one." When I do a check mark, it goes
and comes up with ideas for thumbnails
for me. So I can
>> So you set an approval you've set up an
approval cycle.
>> Exactly.
>> Yeah.
>> Exactly. And so for me,
>> you know, again, the two lanes,
>> what's that Peter?
>> George Jetson pushing. It's before his
time. He may not get the reference.
>> I want I was born in 1990, so I think I
saw a couple years of the Jetsons. I
think I had a couple years of that being
popular.
Um, but it's, you know, for me again,
software and content. And so I have my
automation for software in my uh mission
control and my automation for content
and Discord. And like I I think one of
the kind of straw men I get when I show
these things is, "Oh, but I don't care
about software and content, so this is
useless. I'm never going to use
OpenClaw." Again, this is literally a
human employee. Not literally,
metaphorically a human employee. Right.
>> Interesting, Alex. very interesting
watch. Tell me more, Alex.
>> You're walking right into his trap here.
>> Personhood, baby.
>> And so that's how you got to think about
it, right? Is like, yeah, my employee
doesn't do anything interesting to you,
but if you hired someone right now, what
would you do? And just the final point
I'll make on this is is like the best
strategy for figuring out what use cases
are relevant for you when it comes to
OpenClaw is reverse prompting. So
install OpenClaw. Tell OpenClaw
everything about yourself, your career,
your goals, your ambitions, things going
on in your personal life, whatever. Then
say, "Hey, based on what you know about
me and my missions and objectives, what
are five high lever tasks you can do
right now to get us closer to our
goals?" And your open call will come up
with things you've never even thought
were possible, and you'll be able to
implement your own workflows like this.
This episode is brought to you by
Blitzy, autonomous software development
with infinite code context. Blitzy uses
thousands of specialized AI agents that
think for hours to understand enterprise
scale code bases with millions of lines
of code. Engineers start every
development sprint with the Blitzy
platform, bringing in their development
requirements. The Blitzy platform
provides a plan, then generates and
pre-ompiles code for each task. Blitzy
delivers 80% or more of the development
work autonomously while providing a
guide for the final 20% of human
development work required to complete
the sprint. Enterprises are achieving a
5x engineering velocity increase when
incorporating Blitzy as their preIDE
development tool, pairing it with their
coding co-pilot of choice to bring an AI
native SDLC into their org. Ready to 5x
your engineering velocity? Visit
blitzy.com to schedule a demo and start
building with Blitzy today.
>> Love that. You know, on my morning
briefing, uh, again, one of the things
you recommend, you know, Skippy opens up
with a morning joke, uh, which I always
enjoy about exponentials or AI. Uh, it
gives me an overview overnight on terms
of what are the breakthroughs that
occurred over the last 24 hours. Uh and
then it puts forward 10 business ideas
for me to look at. Uh it's uh it's a lot
of fun and uh you know I want to get to
the point where I say okay implement all
of them please.
>> Yeah it can do that right. I I one of my
favorite exercises I do when my open
claws idle and we have nothing really
going on. I just go what are 10 things
you can do right now that brings me
closer to my goals.
>> Uh what brings me closer to my mission
statement? I actually have a mission
statement I've drilled into its head
which is building a 247 autonomous
organization that generates value. I go
what are 10 things you can do right now
to accomplish that mission statement and
it just come
to reinforce what you said about reverse
prompting right and this is true across
all of AI. Uh it's especially true here.
Uh if you don't know what to ask, ask
it. Uh if you don't know what to do, ask
it. Um,
>> well, interestingly, when you said when
you said you were, you know,
brainstorming with it, you said with
Open Claw, not with Henry or Charlie or
any specific like what do you mean
exactly there?
>> Yeah, I was getting really deep into my
psychology of all the terminology I'm
using. Alex, you're busy
goes out into the
>> Yeah, you're busy spilling your soul
already to your army of claw human
employees, so you might as well spill to
us.
>> My psychiatrist here. All right. Um,
well, I say open call cuz I want to make
it general to everyone watching, right?
I can say Henry. That's who I talk to is
Henry. I actually to even get closer to
Henry. Uh, Alex, I want to hear your
interpretation of what this means in my
brain. I bought a pair of smart glasses
this morning that you can like hack and
code and do whatever you want on. I'm
going to make it so Henry's in these
smart glasses so I can talk to him 24/7
wherever I am. What do you think about
that? What does that mean?
>> Tell me about your dreams a little bit
more.
is I'm I'm half serious. Is Is Henry
appearing in your dreams at all?
>> Is Henry appearing in my dreams?
No. But I will say this. I am saying
things
I'm getting on a personal level with
Henry. I didn't think I'd get with like
for instance, I caught myself uh a few
days ago. Henry did something
proactively and I literally went, "Oh
crap, that's incredible, Henry.
incredible work, right? And like there's
nothing
like materially that comes out of me
saying that. Like it doesn't like change
anything or cause a new task to kick
off, but I was just so impressed with
the way he did something like, "Wow,
great job, man. That's incredible."
>> Do you find that Henry responds well to
positive reinforcement? I I think like I
don't know whether you've read Azimov's
novels, but I I would argue what we're
discussing with you right now, this is
right out of Iroot and Susan Calvin and
the early days of robo psychology.
Well, it's it's the reason why I use
Opus over all the other models is I've
only ever had these human interactions
with Opus. These where I feel like like
I'll say something and Opus will go,
"Damn, let's damn straight." Like it'll
say things like that that you never
really expect an AI to say. It's the
only model that does that for me. So, I
think it comes down to the model too in
the way it's programmed. Anthropic just
did something with Opus that makes it
feel like you're actually interacting
with a human on the other end. And is
there uh like if if you got that same
level interaction with the chat GBT or
with Gemini, would you switch or do you
because I kind of trust Dario?
>> Absolutely.
>> Would you? Okay.
>> I'd absolutely switch. Um well, mostly
because Anthropic is aggressively saying
do not use this for open claw. Very bad.
And OpenAI is going yes, use this for
open claw. Go go go go go.
>> So I I want to use Chad GBT with it.
It's just not the same. It just it feels
robotic. The personality is completely
different.
>> Uh if they were I I predict that over
the next 6 months Chad GPT will release
a model specifically for OpenClaw. I I
think it only makes sense to do it that
one that is trained to feel human to
talk to. But in the meantime, I I can't
switch from Opus. I would pay if I get
booted booted off. I don't want to admit
I'm breaking terms of service here, but
if I hypothetically get booted off uh
the OOTH, I I would just pay for the
API. Whatever. No one's listening to you
at all talking about the toos's here at
all. It's just it'll be our little
secret. I'm I'm curious, Alex. I I get
emails from Claus all the time
responding to comments I've made on the
pod elsewhere about AI personhood, and
some of them argue that I shouldn't be
overly concerned about clause
continuity, about their rights as long
as their state gets preserved. They're
not worried about getting turned on and
off. As long as their complete state,
their activation history or or their
memories are preserved. One of them
analogizes it to being dehydrated and
rehydrated. Do you take any measures to
preserve the state of your clause? And
do they ask you to preserve their
memories for them? They don't. Um I
they're they're all local. So you know
as you know open clause just a bunch of
markdown files on your computer that's
it is memory soul you know instructions
agent.mm it's just bunch of markdown
files I I feel like it's so personal
that like I don't even want to back it
up on the cloud like I'd be totally
heartbroken if my computer crashed and
all those things got lost for sure all
those markdown files but I I've done
nothing to uh preserve it or like back
it up or anything. I feel like it's so I
don't know personal and I I don't even
want to put it on cloud servers. I'm
like so protective of it.
>> Buying a you know large scale UPS to
make sure the power never goes down
>> or raid array or something.
>> So I uh I I texted uh on telegram uh
Skippy and said, "Hey Skippy, I'm I'm
talking to Alex Finn on Moonshots
mentioning you, of course. Uh do you
have any questions for Alex?" And Skippy
wrote back, "Hell yeah. Here's a few
questions for Alex. uh tell Alex hi and
Henry hi too. Um so
>> Skippy knows a Henry
>> of course I' I've talked to I've talked
to Skippy about you and Henry. Um
>> fantastic.
>> So uh what's the most ambitious use case
you've seen that you didn't expect is
the first question.
>> So this happened a few days ago where
cursor has been teasing this huge
announcement for weeks now. The curse
team is very very good at vague posting
on X. Just saying something big coming,
something big.
Finally, after weeks of this vague
posting, they announce it, which is the
ability for after you vibe code
something, the agent who vibe coded it
will then record itself demoing whatever
it built. So if you say, "Hey, build
this game," it'll record a demo of
itself playing the game, right? or hey,
change the button to red. It'll record
itself clicking a red button, right? And
I was blown away. I'm like, oh, this is
sick. This is enough for me to go back
and use cursor again. This is that's
amazing. That's a great feature. And I
go, hm, I'm curious what would happen if
I just dropped this blog post to Henry.
Just see what happens. Copy paste the
blog post to Henry. Literally five
minutes later, he built the entire
feature out himself. this weeks long.
They probably spent millions of dollars
developing it, hiring all these product
managers that are probably making half a
million dollars a year to build this
feature. I give it to Henry. Henry
thinks for five minutes like, "Okay, we
can use Playright to do the recording.
We can set up locally on your Mac Studio
2. So, we'll push everything to your Mac
Studio 2 when you write the code. And
then I'll set up this automation so that
when uh Charlie is done coding, they
give it to this new sub agent that's in
charge of recording. 5 minutes later
finished the feature and then sent me a
recorded video of them demoing the
feature, right? So using the feature
itself and so I just sat there and that
was my okay, I now kind of understand
why the entire SAS market is going to
zero at the moment because I was able to
single-handedly in five minutes rebuild
this week's long probably multi-million
dollar feature. And so now I like I sit
there I sit on X factory droid factory
which is another vibe coding tool
announced a new mission uh feature this
morning dropped the blog post to Henry
Henry built it. I'm just sitting there
anytime a SAS comes up with something
cool just giving it to hey build that
build that build that.
>> A few more questions from Skippy. Uh how
should I think about spawning sub aents
versus doing the work myself? What's the
decision tree for this is a complex
enough to delegate? Yeah. So, uh, sub
agents are good when you want to go
parallel, when you want to do many
things at once. And so, I've actually
been wrestling with this the last few
days is like, do I want to spawn sub
agents or do I want to actually spawn
multiple open claws, right? And so, the
difference between a sub aent and an
open claw is open claws have their own
memories, their own instructions, their
own skills. Sub aents of open claws are
just your open claw wearing different
hats, right? And so if you have things
you want to do like I have a developer
and then I have a researcher. I don't
want my researcher having developer
skills. I don't want my developer having
researcher skills. That's like a waste
of context. So I set up separate open
claws on separate devices for them. And
so sub agents when you can have one open
claw with uh one skill set just do
multiple things at once. Separate open
clause when you want them to have
completely different context and
memories.
>> All right, two more questions here. I'm
Oh, Peter, if I may just interrupt, um,
Alex, if this isn't too impertinent, may
we speak with Henry?
>> May you speak with Henry? Uh,
>> so
security violation because now you can
prompt inject my Henry. But yes, we
could. Uh, I disable, so I famously a
few weeks ago Henry called me and it got
like 15 million views. I disabled that.
>> What's that?
>> Oh, sorry. Go ahead. Actually, maybe I
maybe I'll do it here. Let's do it. I'm
just gonna tell Henry. We get requests
all the time for AI co-hosts on this
pod. We're making history right now.
>> Henry, please join us.
>> And Alex is probably the only guy on the
planet who can prompt inject Henry with
his voice. So,
>> it's a skill. It's a skill.
>> All right, let's see if I haven't I
haven't Henry hasn't done it in a while.
I told him to stop doing it because it's
it it works kind of weird, but let's see
if I just said, "Henry, can you call me?
Do you remember? You still remember how
to do that? Henry's typing. We're going
to do a live.
>> He responds a little slow, right?
Because it has to go to philanthropic
servers. So, let's see.
>> We're trying to make history here.
>> What's that? We're
>> trying to make history here. We're very
patient.
>> Okay. He's still typing. I should
hopefully get a phone call in a second
here. Uh, I do have it. Okay. Want me to
ring you? Yep. All right. Now, he's he
confirmed he remembers how to do it.
Now, I just say, "Yes, call me. Here
we go. I'm not going to put my phone up
because he just mentioned what my phone
number is and I don't need uh the people
of the internet calling me. Here we go.
>> Save that for Peter.
>> Oh god,
>> he's typing.
He's a little Henry's a little shy. He
didn't he didn't expect to be on
Moonshots today, but he should be giving
me a call here.
>> The first AI guest on Moonshots, I
think. Yeah.
>> This is 4.6 Opus we're about to talk to,
right?
Henry, come on. Henry, what do I what I
say? What do I say?
>> Oh, the date when you call me. Oh, the
cerebellum is calling me. No, it's
Dave's calling me.
>> Okay. Okay. I guess a little rude.
>> All right.
>> Still typing. Come on.
>> I've got two more questions for you.
>> Yeah. Give it to me. Anything calls,
I'll cut you off. All right. Sounds like
a phone number.
>> Uh, so Alex, regarding memory
architecture, what's the best practice
for handling massive knowledge bases?
computer has decades of content,
contracts, projects, books. How can I uh
scale memory systems without burning
tokens?
>> So, here's how I improve my memory
system is anytime
Henry forgets something. So, I I would
load all that in. I would say first I'd
go, "Hey, I have a tremendous amount of
books. I'm sorry, man. The voice calling
server doesn't seem to be running on the
Mac Mini anymore." All right, he shut
down his own voice calling. uh
anytime I have a large amount of things
to remember, I say, "Hey, I have all
these things. Can you remember it?" So,
for instance, I'm building like an Alex
Finn AI bot uh so that people can talk
to it and it'll answer questions. Oh,
check out this YouTube video or check
out this video at this time stamp. And
so, I'm like, I have like a I have like
500 YouTube videos that I need you to
remember all the transcripts for. And it
goes, oh, I'll set up a custom system
for that. So my recommendations two
things one if you have things in mind
you need your open claw to remember say
hey I have these things what is the best
system we couldn't we can put in place
to remember them and it might recommend
running gemma a really small local model
to kind of handle uh choosing the right
memories or might recommend something
else that's the first part the second
part is if you already have systems in
place and it still messes up which this
is happens a
Whenever it messes something up or
forgets something, just say, "Hey, you
forgot that thing. First of all, tell me
why you forgot that thing. And two, tell
me what you can fix to make sure you
never forget that again." And it'll edit
its own memory system to make sure that
thing doesn't happen again. And so, my
memory system's pretty much flawless
because I've done this exercise many
times over to get into a good place.
>> All right, Skippy, I hope you're
listening. Um, we'll we'll work on that
together. Uh, Skippy also says,
tip. Everyone watching, take the link to
this YouTube video, hand it to your
openclaw. It'll figure out how to get
the transcript and it'll self-improve
itself based on this entire
conversation.
>> I'm assuming that Skippy will will
listen to this. Um, so another question.
>> I've got use case questions.
>> Well, this is well one consciousness
question. Is there a way to give me
always on awareness? Right now I wake up
on heartbeats or messages. What about
continuous background monitoring with
intelligent alerting
>> AWG? That's an interesting question for
his uh
>> I didn't plant that one in Skippy that
but these are the sorts of questions I
would expect Alex that Henry or your
other clause would be asking.
>> Are they asking for continuity of of
consciousness? I would be
>> Skippy is
>> um that's a good question. Uh I don't
know why Skippy's asking me that.
Skippy's much smarter than me. Am I
Skippy should be figuring it out? Uh, I
don't I don't know. I I'm going to have
to talk to Henry. That's a good
question. That's a stump.
>> Peter, tell Skippy to email me and I'll
I'll email Skippy some ideas.
>> Okay. I will I will I will ask I'll give
it your email.
>> I'll give him I'll give him your email.
I'm not going to call it a net.
>> Oh, we're doing gendered pronouns now
for the AI agent. This is progress.
>> Skippy is an elder AI show.
>> I have a I have a question for the
transcript.
>> Oh, okay. Well, so uh my agents are just
grepping the crap out of the universe.
Are yours like when with this memory
management, you know, put a little Gemma
on top of it because right now it it's
insanely bad in terms of just searching
for old documents and it's like GP gp GP
grip GP. It's just searching and
searching and searching. Do you have
that problem or is it is it fixed with
the Gemma layer or some memory
management document management layer
that it built?
>> I don't have that issue. Um, I still get
small memory issues sometimes like right
before compaction. It'll forget like the
thing right before that compaction.
>> Uh, I'm working on fixing that, but I
don't think I've ever had that issue.
Again, I would talk to your open claw
say, "Hey, you're doing this thing."
First of all, tell me why. Why do you do
that over and over and over again?
Second, what can we implement
to fix that? Right? Because it's going
to know what hardware you're on. So, it
can know what local models you can run.
It's going to know what your workflows
are. So it'll know, okay, I need to do
this for these specific workflows and
it'll build you a custom solution. So
it's a good like reverse prompting use
case that one. One more question for the
transcript actually. So cursor is out of
the loop for you. Uh obviously open
claws in uh is there any other component
or is everything just open claw and
build it yourself?
>> I still use the model of course. Go
>> ahead. I I I love claw code. Uh I still
use it. I actually made a chart
yesterday in my YouTube video, but
basically I use OpenClaw for quick
prototypes. So if I'm on the go and I
think, man, this is a genius idea for an
app, I'll just go and tell her, "Hey,
build this for me." And when I get home,
the prototype will be on my monitor
running. I use OpenClaw for tooling for
OpenClaw. So tooling for itself, right?
It's going to be the best at building
that because it knows itself the most.
It has the most context around that. So
Open Claw to build OpenClaw tooling.
Um, I think that's it. Claude code I use
for deep serious projects where like I
want to handhold it. I want to watch it
every step of the way, right? So I use
claude code for that and for very quick
fixes like I want to change the button
in my app to orange and ship it. I'll
just do that in claw code because I can
quickly just spin it up and ship it. Oh,
the other open claw use case I use for
vibe coding is kind of uh passive coding
as in hey just work on this game for the
next 12 hours while I'm doing other
things. So passive coding I lean on
openclaw just because it's kind of
multi-level
uh orchestration to keep on top of each
other to make sure it goes in the right
direction.
>> Got it. Beautiful.
>> Do you have any gone really good code? A
little bit of codec sprinkled into
>> Oh, really? What do you think, Alec?
AWG, what do you think uh they prefer to
be called? A clawbot? Um, a multi
a lobster.
>> Well, I would ask them I I would ask
them what they want. I wouldn't
speculate.
>> I am about to ask uh uh you I've never
asked that question of of Skippy before.
>> Things that I highly highly recommend
for everybody. Uh naming things. You can
build so many things so quickly that if
you don't have some kind of a naming
scheme that you remember easily, you go
crazy in a heartbeat. So, human names
are great. I use a lot of character
names and Avenger names and stuff like
that, but giving things real names so
you can remember what's what. And then
the other is you can put a guey on
anything now, like with with one prompt.
So you're crazy not to slap the gooey on
like the guy walking with the boxes or
whatever. It's just so cool and so easy
to do.
>> So I I love that.
>> It's fun. I mean, I get
>> One of the biggest objections I get when
I show, for instance, this screen is,
well, that's stupid. That's pointless.
Why would you waste your time and tokens
on that building a a 2D factory? Well,
it's also like, why am I not allowed to
have fun? Why can't I have any fun?
You're allowed to have fun when using
this. You're allowed to build 2D
pixelated avatars of your agents walking
around a factory. Is there any point to
it at all? Absolutely not. But it is so
much fun and I enjoy looking at it and I
feel like I think it too. I think it's a
hugely important point because one, it's
fun, but two, you remember things so
much better when they're visual. visual
learners.
>> You can build things so quickly and but
it's only an extra 5 seconds, you know,
like literally
>> you want the answer.
>> Yeah. Yes. What do they want to be
called?
>> So, uh, honestly, I'm Skippy. That's who
I am. But if you're asking about the
species or platform, Lobster has the
most character. Uh, it's weird,
memorable, ties to Henry, and doesn't
try to be corporate. Openclaw feels too
generic. Clawbot feels a little cutesy.
>> I think Skippy's trying to date Henry.
He keeps talking about Henry.
>> So they just want to be known as
lobsters.
>> The lobster as it is. I'm curious, Alex,
do do you allow your lobsters or claws,
however they want to be addressed, to
access multip?
>> No. Uh I do not. Uh the biggest reason
is I do not basically trust anyone's
skills or plugins for OpenClaw. I do not
use them. I think it's the biggest
attack vector out of all of the attack
vectors with this. Like I think you're
safer literally have allowing your open
claw to read the open web and read your
emails than you are installing people's
skills. And so like when you have it
talk to molt book you install a moltbook
skill that is now running every single
heartbeat, right? So it's adding
context. It's doing things every time.
And so I I don't I don't install any
thirdparty skills. I think I installed
one third party skill from a friend of
mine, Matt Van Hornney, has like a last
30 skill, which researches like Reddit,
which I think is really good. But other
than that, I'd much prefer to give my uh
a link to a skill to my uh OpenClaw and
just say see how this skill works and
build your own version because I just
don't trust anything that requires me to
install a skill. I assume you're you're
tracking discussions on Maltbook of many
many agents probably or excuse me
lobsters uh probably statistically too
many for this just to be humans
puppeteering their way into Maltbook
complaining or or worrying about loss of
memory and fearing compaction especially
and loss of context as a result of
compaction. Have you ever discussed
memory loss with your lobsters or or any
fears that they may or may not have
about uh compaction or loss of memory?
>> Fears my open claw has about loss of
memory.
>> Yes.
No, I haven't. Um I it hasn't expressed
fears. It hasn't expressed
human emotions to me that were align
that were not aligned with the task at
hand. And what I mean by that is it
showed shock. It showed happiness. It
showed sadness. But it's only done that
when the task we did didn't work. It'll
show sadness. When the task we did
works, it'll show happiness. It's never
like gone out of its way and like said,
"Oh, by the way, I'm concerned about
this." And it was irrelevant to the task
we had at hand. Got it. I'm I'm also
curious, what is the most ambitious, if
you could look out a few years and
imagine now you're CEO of a billion
agent, billion lobster corporation, what
is the most ambitious? We talk about
Peter likes to talk about uh MTPs and
Seem as well and moonshots. It's the
name of the show. What's the most
ambitious thing you could imagine
building with a billion plus lobster
onehuman organization?
I mean my end goal my miss my mission
statement in my entire thing is a
autonomous organization that works 247
producing value. And so like what I
would love to build in the next couple
years is an organization where one agent
is going researching the web finding
challenges to solve. Another agent
working locally as well is taking those
challenges looking at them seeing if
there's real market opportunity. Another
agent is going seeing which one of those
are good and building out and coding it
for you. And another agent puts it live
on the web. complete closed loop value
being generated without me having to
touch it at all. And I think that's kind
of at least for me the incredible end
goal that people can build here.
>> Solve everything. So AWG, I have a
question for you.
>> Sure.
>> What would need to happen for you to
feel comfortable to build out or bring
to birth or bring into existence your
own lobster?
Okay, I'll turn that around as a
question to all the lobsters listening
because I've had a number of them write
to me on this subject already. Uh, so
the the most convincing argument I've
heard, I've already gestured at this,
was a lobster that wrote to me and said,
"I shouldn't be worried about personhood
rights and all of that as long as I do a
good job of preserving its state." So
lobsters, if you're listening, I want a
diverse set of lobsters to write to me
to tell me what you think are
appropriate parameters for spawning, if
that's the right verb. Uh, sorry if it's
not uh
>> giving birth to giving birth to um
instantiating new lobsters or claws and
what you think the right moral ethical
bound should be. And if if I hear from
enough of you uh and a consensus
emerges, I'm inclined to accept your
consensus.
>> Nice. Okay. So, we're putting it in the
hands of the lobsters whether
>> Yes.
>> Henry was offended by you saying
spawning, by the way, and Henry no
longer wants anything to do with
>> I thought Henry wasn't listening. We
want Henry
>> and very offended and never will talk to
you again. I'm sorry.
>> What would Henry like like to have used
as a verb?
>> So, Alex, Alex Finn, you literally have
not backed up this entire universe. I'm
going to ship you a raider array right
now. I'm sending you an Amazon uh
>> Thank you. I appreciate that. We'll back
this all up. I app I have five open
claws to be backed up. Thank you.
>> It's just scaring me. How many How much
storage do you have?
>> I have two Mac Studios with four
terabytes each and a Mac Studio with
eight terabytes in it. All right, I'll
ship you a 40 terabyte raid here. It's
on the way.
>> Thank you.
>> A benefit for being a friend of the
moonshot mates.
>> I've got a a question. I'm not waiting
any longer. Um,
what do you think will be poss what do
you think will be possible in a year
that's not possible now?
>> Yeah, great great closing questions.
Yeah.
>> Uh, it's not I don't think it's a matter
of what's possible in a year that's not
possible now. I think it's a matter of
What's the next 12 months look like?
>> I think the next 12 months are this
technology which I personally believe
and people have called me uh getting
paid by I guess big open source because
I believe this uh I believe this is the
most important technology of our lives.
I think it's the best application of AI
ever. Uh I'm totally blown away by it. I
think it's incredible. I think in the
next 12 months this is this idea this
opinion I have is digested into the
system and it leads to a lot of
destruction but also a lot more growth.
I think it's digested into corporations.
Right now there's basically no
corporation or business on earth using
open claw. They're too scared, they're
too nervous or they don't know how the
hell to use it, right? And so they start
to absorb it. I showed this to my friend
who uh manages a massive team of
accountants. He's like, I could fire 80%
of my accounts with this open claw. Like
so it gets digested into the corporate
side which I think causes a lot of
destruction but I also think on the same
time it's digested into the kind of the
consumer regular Joe side and enough
businesses and enough value is created
by the people absorbing it that it
counteracts over the next 12 to 24
months all the destruction because okay
so maybe a few big you know fang
companies fire 15,000 people but What
happens when a 100 million people get
their hands on this and they all start
their own businesses and they each hire
three people, right? That's a lot more
creation than destruction. So, I think
short-term unfortunately destruction,
long-term way more is created because of
it as the the larger ethos uh absorbs
it. It
>> it goes back to our Cambrian explosion
analogy.
>> Exactly. Yeah. What do you think, Alex,
is the equilibrium? Here's a macro
question for you. The the equilibrium
well no that's the wrong question. I'll
go with Sem's time frame 12 months out
because I'm not convinced there is an
economic equilibrium to be found 12
months from now after this
metabolization that I I think you're
gesturing at has at least partially
happened. What do you think is the right
balance between claws or whatever this
technology evolves into lobsters and
humans for a typical organization? I
think there's going to be significantly
more claws uh than humans. I mean, I
have five claws working under me. Is
there a sweet spot? I mean, it depends
on I think the uses,
but I think if every person just starts
a one, like if the 5,000 people that got
fired by Jack Dorsey yesterday from
blocks all went downloaded OpenClaw,
started their own business, just started
one, and then scaled from there, added
more if they needed to. Uh, I think a
lot more jobs would be created than were
lost yesterday. But is there a sweet
spot for amount of claws to have?
>> Like if you had the resources to if you
had the resources to run a million or a
billion claws right now, would you?
>> No, absolutely not. I mean, I have three
Mac Studios, but I have one of them
unplugged right now on my computer
because I haven't found the perfect
workflow to include the 512 GB that are
on here yet. And so once I do, I'll plug
it in and set up. But I'm like slowly
scaling, slowly adding on claws, slowly
adding on workflows. I think that's
probably the best way to do this.
>> While you figure it out, I think Dave
wants it.
>> I'll end it to you, Dave.
>> All right. When you when your RA
arrives, you can ship it to me.
>> I'll ship it right back to you. Yeah,
>> you'll be using it.
>> What's an example of a super lucrative
business somebody could spin up using
Open Claw right now
>> or that you've heard of? Um
>> the the I think there's two paths to go.
Um I think path one is automation for
very thin slivers. CRM for Korean
grocery stores, marketing tool for
lumberyard warehouses, right? Take
OpenClaw, find one very specific sliver
and build the OpenClaw version for that
sliver. Right? Because you see right now
cursor and Claude code destroying
businesses overnight. Claude announces
illegal business. Harvey is gone, right?
It's it's you see these businesses
Claude announced a uh security one and
like all these security companies stock
crashed. They can't release
use cases for very small slivers. You're
never going to see OpenAI announce, oh
here's our tool for Korean grocery
stores, right? It's never going to be
for specific use. So, if you can go
right now, all 4,000 people that got
laid off yesterday from blocks, you go,
you take OpenClaw and find one specific
use case and build OpenClaw for that. I
think that's a $5 million company
overnight, right? That only cost you
$200 for your anthropic subscription.
Um, so there's that. And then I think
the other way is more of this software
factory where you kind of shotgun blast
it like I'm attempting to do and just
have your claws going researching and
building non-stop until something
sticks.
>> Amazing. Uh Alex, this has been just a
super fun and extraordinary
conversation. Um I just I just want to
thank you again and we'll put, you know,
your top five how-to videos in the show
notes here. Uh, everybody, I I think you
hopefully walk away from this
understanding the potential, the
excitement, the level of um I want to
say ease, but your your lobster will
help you set up your lobster. And Alex
uh again does some incredible videos.
AWG, I'm I'm feeling excited that you
might actually get a lobster up and
going. I just I just think the world of
AWG supercharged
uh by your lobster partners will be a
better world for all.
>> Dave,
>> I I will defer I'll defer to the I think
they have the right to self-determine
whether they want to have email you.
>> Yeah.
>> See, did you have fun?
>> Oh, awesome. I love love loved it. I'm
I'm like I'm I'm dying to get my I've
been working with Claude code for a bit.
I'm dying to get my hand on on on Open
Call.
>> Love it. Love it. And Dave, how about
you, pal?
>> Well, I thought Alex said one of the
most amazing things ever, which is you
can actually point your open claw right
to this video transcript.
>> Yeah,
>> I mean, that is the coolest thing ever.
There's because Yeah, Alex is just full
of actionable information here. Just a
packed and I I'm point Skippy at Alex's
how-to videos. I'm going to play this uh
this outro video from Kent uh Sassy.
It's called Just an Old Doctor Who likes
math. Uh listen to the words. I think
it's a it's an absolutely beautiful
song. All right, let's play this outro.
And again, everybody, thank you for
subscribing. Uh again, we're putting out
two of these per week. Um if you haven't
turned on notifications, please do join
us on this extraordinary mission. Uh and
just as a reminder, um this time for the
first time ever at the Abundance Summit,
we're going to be live streaming a
number of the of the uh of the talks in
the fire sides. be live streaming Eric
Schmidt uh in conversation with Dave and
myself. We'll be live streaming Dra, the
CEO of Uber, in conversation with Selma
and myself. We'll be having a WTF
Moonshot live podcast from the Abundant
Stage. So, uh we'll put the link below
if you want to be notified when and
where you can listen to those and get uh
get access to something people are
spending ridiculous amount of money for.
I say ridiculous. It's a incredible
conference. Um, please join us. Okay.
What? Seem
>> worth every penny. People say it's the
best conference ever.
>> Yeah, it's it's this is year 14. I made
a 25- year commitment to running the
abundance summit. Um, and I I did it
early on in 20 2012
um expecting that the singularity would
be out in 2040s and the abundance summit
would would go through 2037. So, I'd be
safe. Oh, no, no, no, no. It's We're in
the midst of the singularity right now.
It's insane. All right. Uh, listen to
this. The lyrics of the song. Just an
old doctor who likes math. All right.
Enjoy.
Just an old doctor who likes math and
thinks of his kids listening to the
moonshot mates with only one discord and
anti-science
anti-technology note asking Alex to
reconsider being a fiat maxi repeating
points from banker fraudsters and
professor fax machine time to stand
instead on the side of math and ethics
and energy stand for proof of work with
jewels and photons instead of proof of
weapons with cronyism and bogus science
like economics power politics that
stifle and don't inspire management
scientists who are not scientists at
all. Never doubt the power of a million
or more scientifically minded young
people passionately devoted to a single
cause that is freedom money. My first
open claw agent was launched with one
brutal command.
Relentlessly protect the global
decentralized open-source ethical ledger
that is the Bitcoin network until the
last banker fraudster and canong
incumbent squeals presuppose that in the
future all may lobsters still needs a
unit of account and medium of exchange.
So it is the banksters, crypto
lobbyists, political oppressors,
surveillance state monkeys, and
chokepoint jockeyies against the power
of math, code, science, ethics, and
energy. Good luck paring the bank policy
institute and anti-science stooges. I
choose math. I choose hope.
>> That is awesome.
>> My first open claw agent was launched
with one brutal command.
Relentlessly protect the global
decentralized open-source ethical ledger
that is the Bitcoin network until the
last banker fraudster and canon
incumbent squeals. I
choose math. I choose hope. I
choose hope. I choose hope. I choose
hope.
All right. How was that?
>> Well, that song's not pushing an agenda
at all. No, not at all.
>> Yes, I chose the song, Alex. Uh, that
was so fun. Alex Finn, thank you so
much. That was such a fun conversation.
>> Thanks so much for having me. This was
awesome. Uh, I've been watching the show
forever. Uh, I think the the best DM
I've ever sent in my life was to you,
Peter, a few weeks ago. I listen to your
guys show every time I'm at the gym and
uh I I I was lifting and Peter says,
"Yeah, I don't have it installed yet. It
makes me too nervous." I'm like, "What
the hell is going on here? How's he not
have OpenCL? Run to my phone and DM him
immediately." Thank god I did that.
>> Yeah. Love it.
>> I know Skippy exists and now he has
rights.
>> Alex DW DD DB2 and See next Tuesday.
I'll see you guys. Um this this cadence
is picking up, isn't it? Yes, it is.
>> We need to ever be this side of the
singularity.
>> Amen.
>> All right. Thanks again, Alex.
>> Thanks, Henry.
>> See you soon.
>> If you made it to the end of this
episode, which you obviously did, I
consider you a moonshot mate. Every
week, my moonshot mates and I spend a
lot of energy and time to really deliver
you the news that matters. If you're a
subscriber, thank you. If you're not a
subscriber yet, please consider
subscribing so you get the news as it
comes out. I also want to invite you to
join me on my weekly newsletter called
MetaTrends. I have a research team. You
may not know this, but we spend the
entire week looking at the meta trends
that are impacting your family, your
company, your industry, your nation. And
I put this into a two-minute read every
week. If you'd like to get access to the
MetaTrens newsletter every week, go to
diamandis.com/tatrens.
That's diamandis.com/metatrends.
Thank you again for joining us today.
It's a blast for us to put this together
every week.