If you've been paying attention to the news lately, you've probably been seeing all the headlines about big tech companies laying off a ton of their engineers. But at the same time, the total number of software engineering jobs is still increasing. In my opinion, the explanation for this is very simple. Engineers are moving from big companies with a lot of bureaucracy and slow processes to smaller companies where they can ship and iterate quickly. If you're new here, I'm R.J. Until about 6 months ago, I was a software engineer on Amazon, and now I work at a small startup where we ship a lot quicker. I've seen both the bureaucracy and the startup lifestyle. So I feel qualified to speak on this subject today. I want to talk a little bit about what the future of software engineering actually looks like. To understand what's happening, we first need to look at what the software development process is actually like at these larger tech companies. A traditional tech company building software involves a ton of process. A product manager might suggest a feature and look for entitlement numbers to figure out how much money this is going to make the company. Then software engineers come in and estimate how long it will take them to build that feature. After that, a software engineer will create a system design for the feature. Other engineers will review the feature, make sure it looks good, try to poke holes in it before security, taking a look at it to make sure everything looks tight on that front. Once that's all done, this will be assigned to a future sprint. This could be next week or it could be next quarter depending on resourcing. Finally, some engineers will come in to actually implement the feature. They need to write the code for the feature. They need to write unit tests, integration tests, canary tests. It needs to be deployed by a DevOps team. And then QA comes in to make sure everything looks good. Finally, that feature will be released to customers. A simple feature needs to pass all those steps before it can actually be shipped. The structure makes sense. When you're trying to serve hundreds of millions of users with highquality, reliable software, you need this much process. But as you can imagine, with all this, things move incredibly slowly. You could be waiting weeks for approval at any one of those steps. You could be fighting for your entitlement numbers. Your product manager could go on vacation. You might not get a DevOps resource to help you deploy. Your unit test might be too difficult to write due to your testing environment. There's a whole host of reasons that delay things, even if you have thousands of extremely talented engineers. Now, let's look at a much smaller company. As engineers get faster and faster with AI, we're starting to see engineering pods condense. Four engineers, a designer, and a product manager can be standard for some of these smaller companies. If an engineer sees a gap in the product or the CEO has an issue, well, the engineers are usually going to try to build, deploy, design, and roll out a fix as soon as possible. No entitlement numbers, no approvals, probably not even a design review from the other engineers unless it's a major architectural decision. Now, of course, things break more often, but because there's nowhere near as many users, it doesn't matter as much, and people are able to ship much, much faster. Everything I've said up until this point has been true before or after AI. But the gap has been a lot smaller because before AI, if you wanted to ship a lot of features, you still just needed a lot of engineers writing code. And I know a lot of you are very skeptical about AI or don't think it's that useful. But I promise you, at a small company where all you're trying to do is quickly ship features, AI lets you do it much faster than you would without AI. And yes, a lot of this comes at the cost of your architecture quality. But in the early stages of a company, you're trying to find product market fit. Investors and customers both care more about features than having a perfectly architected piece of code. So now you have these very small teams at small companies, which are able to actually ship faster than the larger teams at the bigger companies, even though they have less engineers. Now, I predict this is going to lead to an explosion of small software companies that are all competing in similar spaces, as opposed to the giants we have today dominating everything with every engineer on the market. It's always been true that you'd see multiple versions of essentially the same exact software being sold and distributed by different companies where every company does have some share of the market. League of Legends and Dota peacefully coexist and so do slides and PowerPoint. You might choose a product because that company supports some political initiative you like or you like the way that the founder dresses or you like the way the UI looks. There's a hundred reasons why you might pick one software platform over another even if they have similar features. And now that it's so easy to go after the big incumbents, more and more people are going to start doing it. Because software is so much cheaper and faster to build, there's going to be more and more competition in the market. And this is actually good both for us as developers and for us as consumers. We want more options. We want to be able to put our money behind our own ideologies. We want a UI that perfectly aligns with how we like to do things. Here's another example. Hyperlocal software. Let's say I wanted to build an Austin happy hour tracker. Previously, building the app might have taken me 3 to 4 months, and maybe I could have made $2,000 a month off selling advertisements to local businesses. that's probably not worth my time to build. But with AI, I might be able to build it in 3 to 4 weeks. Now, suddenly that niche software is profitable for me and worth building. And I don't have to generalize it and turn it into a worldwide happy hour tracker to try to please some venture capitalists somewhere. I can keep it as a hyper local project to Austin. Again, specialized software at scale. So, what does this mean for you as a software engineer? If you work at a big company, take a long, hard, realistic look at where you guys are at. If things move slowly and you guys aren't shipping a lot of features or you work 15 hours a week, I would be super careful. Make sure you make yourself valuable to the company and make sure you're always learning new skills. One of the reasons I left Amazon was because I felt like I wasn't learning nearly as quickly as I had been when I first joined the company. It's very common for people who stay in the same job for longer than 2 to four years to become stagnant. Big companies will obviously still exist, but I do think we're going to continue to see layoffs across these huge companies in the coming year. If you work at a small company, you're probably getting paid less and you're probably working more, but you also have much higher leverage and can be extremely valuable. And of course, you'll be expected to have skills beyond coding. You should be able to look at your own product and understand what customers might want. Expand beyond just writing code. Product thinking and system design are obviously going to be extremely important skills. If you enjoyed this video and want more breakdowns on the software engineering market, or how to stand out as a software engineer in 2026 and beyond, check out my channel and subscribe for more. And of course, if you want to hear more from me, you can sign up for my newsletter down below.