Imagine you have a place where you can store 
all your notes and insights in such a way   that it helps you to a deeper understanding of 
the topics that interest you. And even more:   A place where your own work on these 
topics emerges almost by itself.  That is the promise of the Zettelkasten, 
a second brain that in some ways   functions better than your first one.
You've probably heard this term before:   the Zettelkasten actually a thing of the 20th 
century, but it has seen a digital revival   around the year 2020 – thanks to an ongoing 
research project at Bielefeld University,   a popular book and a bunch of apps. The book is 
titled How To Take Smart Notes by Sönke Ahrens. It's this one. And the apps are called Logseq, Obsidian, Roam 
Research, to name a few. With these, anyone can   build their own digital Zettelkasten – in theory.
Now, let's talk about, what the Zettelkasten   method is, who it's for and how it works in a 
digital environment. At the end of this video   you can decide for yourself if this method 
is something for you. Since I came across it,   the idea behind the Zettelkasten has 
significantly impacted the way I work.   And I’m looking forward to reading your thoughts on 
this and about your experiences in the comments. My name is David. Nice to meet you. Let's dive in. The Zettelkasten method goes back to Niklas 
Luhmann, a German sociologist who in academic   circles is famous for his systems theory and 
his incredible productivity. He published over   50 books and hundreds of articles. About half a 
dozen more works were published in his name after   he passed away – to which Sönke Ahrens writes:
There are more than a few colleagues I know who   would give a lot to be as productive in their 
whole lifetime as Luhmann was after this death. What made him so productive was his unique way of 
note-taking and knowledge management, in the form   of the Zettelkasten. It allowed him to collect 
thoughts in a way so he could retrieve them any   time, find meaningful connections and thus build 
a large knowledge base as foundation for his work.  The term Zettelkasten translates to »slip box« 
and that's just what it is: boxes filled with   slips of paper called »Zettel«. That and a pen 
was all Luhmann needed. He has written about   90,000 of this »Zettel«. His archive has 
been digitized and gives an impression   of how complex his method actually 
was, despite such simple equipment. The method can be simplified to three main steps. 
The first step is to take notes as you read. Every   bit of information that seems relevant in some 
way, you write down in your own words. That,   instead of just highlighting what seems 
important and never get back to it.  In practice, let's be real here, you sometimes 
probably still want to just highlight as you   read. The solution is to review your highlights 
in a timely manner – for example, with a service   like Readwise – and then transfer and rewrite 
your highlights properly into your Zettelkasten.  These notes, which contain insights from 
your readings, are commonly referred to   as literature notes. I prefer to speak of 
media notes, since I can of course make such   notes on anything I consume as media, even 
online courses, podcasts or YouTube videos.  Regardless of the medium, it is important to 
keep these notes short and to the point. At   best one idea per note. Phrasing 
them in your own words helps to   sharpen your own understanding of this idea.
Second, take what is called »bibliographical   notes« or »reference notes«. After you’ve finished 
reading something or consuming any kind of media,   you write down some reference information on this 
work, such as it's title, name of the author or   creator, year or date it was published – plus, you 
write a brief note about the content of this work.  Third and most importantly, for your notes to 
really live in your Zettelkasten – and not just   catch dust there – you have to transform them 
into permanent notes. In doing so, on the one   hand, you want to be selective and only include 
notes that really relate to your interests.   On the other hand, you want to include 
as many stimulating thoughts as possible.  To do that, you review your media notes with your 
interests and research topics in mind and find   meaningful connection between new and existing 
notes. The more often and regularly you do this,   the easier it will be for you and the 
better you will remember the contents   of your knowledge base. This is 
how new trains of thought emerge. The challenge is not to pack too much 
irrelevant information into a note - it's   not supposed to be a Wikipedia page – but 
enough to create as many links as possible   to your existing body of notes. Ask yourself: 
Why do you want to keep this note? What does   it relate to? You may also add relevant 
keywords based on recurring interests,   research topics or projects of yours. All 
this helps your future self to notice this   note when being engaged in this context. A note 
that doesn't link to others will be forgotten. This method is for you if you read and 
research a lot while building your own   framework of thoughts. But such a Zettelkasten 
is not meant for any kind of note, such as notes   on contacts or your journal. I have also left out 
the topic of »fleeting notes« here, as they rarely   make their way into the Zettelkasten.
In times of digital note-taking,   it is even more important and difficult to keep a 
certain order within your notes. Because nowadays,   our digital knowledge base often contains much 
more than Niklas Luhmann would have put into his   Zettelkasten. But that's another topic for another 
time. Feel free to post questions and feedback in   the comments. Thanks for your attention – 
and I’ll catch you on the flip side! Bye!